dylann roof was 21 years old and he believed in racial segregation. he also believed that the white-skinned people were superior to the dark skin ones.  Dylan ran a website called the last Rhodesian where he posted images of himself burning the Asdmerican flag or holding a pistol and posing proudly at sites connected to the Confederacy.

At first he wanted to go into the projects and shoot African-American drug dealers, but he then decided that they might shoot back and he didn't want to risk dying before he could change the world.  he settles for the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in South Carolina.

On June 17th 2015 Dylan roof pulled into that church and he sat in his car for some time. he had loaded 8 magazines of hollow point ammunition for his Glock 45 handgun. he wanted to have exactly 88 bullets because that number is the white nationalist code for Heil Hitler. Dylan then join the members of the congregation for a Bible study session that was planned for that night. he sat there for a few minutes working up the courage to attack. He then  out his gun telling the others that African-Americans were taking over their country, and he then open fire.  according to One Survivor,  roof tried to shoot himself but he had run out of ammunition.  he fled in his car he was arrested the following morning in North Carolina and brought in for interrogation

Dylan roofs parents were in the middle of a divorce when he was born. his father Franklin was a carpenter and a contractor while his mother Amy serve drinks as a bartender. Dylan's birth would bring them back together but only for a short time. when Dylan was five his father would marry another woman named Paige and together they would give Dylan another sibling. Dylan would watch as his father constantly verbally and physically abused his stepmother on a daily basis

at three years old Dylan received a haircut style called the bowl cut and for the remainder of his life he would make sure his hair would remain that way. He would begin to develop odd behaviors like obsessive compulsive disorder where he would fixate on any one thing and only that thing, and his family would have a hard time taking his attention away from it. he was also germaphobic, and would go out of his way to avoid any and all germs. in middle school he found that he enjoyed smoking marijuana and was even caught spending money on the drug.

Dylan would attend almost a dozen different schools in his life and would even end up repeating the 9th grade before he decided to quit altogether. quitting school meant he would have a lot of free time and he would use that time to play video games and use drugs. he would live on and off between his biological mother and father maintaining this lifestyle until his father demanded he get a job as a landscaper, which Dylan did. aside from work Dylan continued to maintain his antisocial lifestyle. he would spend the majority of his free time locked in his room searching the internet or playing video games

Dylan purchased the gun used in the shooting at a retail store in West Columbia using birthday money that was given to him. after showing it to his friends they would try and hide the weapon because they feared he would kill someone with it Dylan continue to post racist propaganda on the internet and was even talking to other white supremacist online. ironically it was his racist actions that would lead to him getting caught after the shooting

after Dylan left the church he would drive almost 300 miles away. he was at a stoplight when a woman noticed his car with a three flag Confederate States of America bumper decoration. she then called the police, revealing his location. photos of him and his car we're all over television and the internet, so his car and him in it was like a beacon for all to see. Dylan was convicted of the murders and sentenced to death for his crimes

On August 4th 2016 Dylan was assaulted by another inmate. the attacker was 25 year old African-American Dwayne Stafford who was awaiting trial for assault and robbery. Dwayne was able to sneak down to the protective custody unit where the two officers were watching Dylan just happened to be busy with other things. Dylan had bruising on his face and body but was not seriously injured strangely enough the next day Dwayne was released on bail.
