[1.1]: # "Install, upgrade, and migrate servers and workloads"
[1.2]: # "Install and configure Nano Server"

[Zacker]: https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/certs/70-740.md "Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017."
[n/pwsh]: https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md "Powershell notes"

<!-- Windows Server Migration Tools-->
[Windows Server Migration Tools]: # 'Windows Server Migration Tools&#10;Five Windows Powershell cmdlets that enable administrators to migrate certain roles between servers&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Export-SmigServerSetting]:    https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#export-smigserversetting       '```&#10;PS C:\> Export-SmigServerSetting&#10;```&#10;Export certain Windows features and operating system settings to a migration store&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Get-SmigServerFeature]:       https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#get-smigserverfeature          '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmigServerFeature&#10;```&#10;Display a list of Windows features that can be migrated from the local server or ffrom a migration store&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Import-SmigServerSetting]:    https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#import-smigserversetting       '```&#10;PS C:\> Import-SmigServerSetting&#10;```&#10;Import certain Windows features and operating system settings from a migration store and apply them to the local server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Receive-SmigServerData]:      https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#receive-smigserverdata         '```&#10;PS C:\> Receive-SmigServerData&#10;```&#10;Enable a destination server to receive migrated files, folders, permissions, and share properties from a source server (`Send-SmigServerData` cmdlet must be running on the source server at the same time)&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Send-SmigServerData]:         https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#send-smigserverdata            '```&#10;PS C:\> Send-SmigServerData&#10;```&#10;Migrate files, folders, permissions, and share properties from a source server to a destination server (`Receive-SmigServerData` cmdlet must be running on the destination server at the same time)&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[New-NanoServerImage]: https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/tree/master/win/pwsh.md#new-nanoserverimage '```&#10;PS C:\> New-NanoServerImage&#10;PS C:\> New-NanoServerImage -DeploymentType guest|host -Edition standard|datacenter -MediaPath root -TargetPath $PATH -ComputerName $NAME&#10;```&#10;Used to create a Nano Server VHD file for Nano Server installation&#10;Required parameters:&#10;  `DeploymentType` specified whether the image file should be used on a Hyper-V VM ("Guest") or a physical server ("Host")&#10;  `Edition` specifies whether to install the Standard or Datacenter edition of Nano Server&#10;  `MediaPath` specifies the path to the root of the WS2016 installation disk or mounted image&#10;  `BasePath` specifies a path on the local system where the cmdlet creates a copy of the installation files from the location specified in `MediaPath`&#10;  `TargetPath` specifies the full path and filename of the new image to be created with the filename extension (".vhd" or ".vhdx") specifying Generation 1 or Generation 2 image.&#10;  `ComputerName` specifies the computer name that should be assigned to the new image&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 44'
[Edit-NanoServerImage]: https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/tree/master/win/pwsh.md#edit-nanoserverimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Edit-NanoServerImage&#10;```&#10;Add a role or feature to an existing Nano Server VHD file&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 49'

[MAK]: # 'Multiple activation key (MAK)&#10;Product key that can be used to activate multiple Windows systems (suitable for small networks).&#10;Two ways to use MAK when activating Windows computers:&#10;  1. **MAK Independent**: Each computer using the MAK must perform an individual activation with Microsoft&#10;  2. **MAK Proxy**: Computers receive a MAK from a system running VAMT&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 35'
[VAMT]: # 'Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT)&#10;Collects installation IDs from target computers, sending them to Microsoft using a single connection and receiving confirmation IDs in return, which are deployed to targets.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 35'
[KMS]: # 'Key Management Service (KMS)&#10;Client/server application that enables client computers to activate their license doperating system products by communicating with a KMS host computer on the local network (suitable for large networks).&#10;Requires a minimum of 25 workstations (ref Activation threshold) and uses TCP port 1688. KMS hosts create an SRV resource record on DNS to identify it.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 35'
[Activation threshold]: # 'Activation threshold&#10;Minimum of 25 workstation systems or five server systems as clients for KMS&#10;KMS hosts maintain a cache of the 50 most recent workstation requests, and KMS activations expire every 180 days (ref Activation validity interval). &#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 36'
[Activation validity interval]: # 'Activation validity interval&#10;180 days for KMS activations, although clients attempt to renew every 7 days&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 37'
[Volume Activation Services]: # 'Volume Activation Services&#10;Windows Server role that must be added before installing a KMS host&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 37'
[Volume Activation Tools]: # 'Volume Activation Tools&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 37'
[GVLK]: # 'generic volume licensing key (GVLK)&#10;Can be used to configure KMS clients that are not KMS clients by default, like those with retail, MAK, or KMS host licenses&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 39'
[Active Directory-based activation]: # 'Active Directory-based activation&#10;Use of AD DS for communication and data storage instead of a KMS host&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 39'
[Volume Licensing Services]: # 'Volume Licensing Services&#10;Windows Server role that must be added before being able to use Active Directory-based activation&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 40'
[AVMA]: # 'Automatic Virtual Machine Activation (AVMA)&#10;Simplifies the process of activating VMs created on Hyper-V servers, whereby a binding is created between the host server and the activation mechanism on each VM, which are activated automatically and remain so.&#10;Requires Datacenter Edition of WS 2016 or WS 2012 R2 on the host server and a specific key, depending on the version of Windows Server on the VM.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 41'


# Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016 (70-740)

#### Exam objectives
Skill | Topics
--- | ---
[1.1][1.1] | **Migration** <br>[**Windows Server Migration Tools**][Windows Server Migration Tools] **`SmigServer`** `Data` [`rc`][Receive-SmigServerData] [`sd`][Send-SmigServerData] `Feature` [`g`][Get-SmigServerFeature]`Setting` [`ex`][Export-SmigServerSetting] [`ip`][Import-SmigServerSetting] <br> **Activation**<br>[AVMA][AVMA] &bull; [Activation threshold][Activation threshold] &bull; [Activation validity interval][Activation validity interval] &bull; [Active Directory-based activation][Active Directory-based activation] &bull; [GVLK][GVLK] &bull; [KMS][KMS] &bull; [**MAK**][MAK] &bull; [VAMT][VAMT] &bull; [Volume Activation Services][Volume Activation Services] &bull; [Volume Activation Tools][Volume Activation Tools] &bull; [Volume Licensing Services][Volume Licensing Services] 
[1.2][1.2] | **`NanoServerImage`** [`n`][New-NanoServerImage] [`e`][Edit-NanoServerImage]
