# Exam Ref AZ-103 Microsoft Azure Administrator, by Michael Washam, Jonathan Tuliani, and Scott Hoag
\# | Title | Links
:--- | :--- | :---
1   | **Manage Azure subscriptions and resources**
1.1 | Manage Azure Subscriptions                    | [**1.1a**](#11a-assign-administrator-permissions) [1.1a.01](#11a01) <br/> [**1.1b**](11b-configure-cost-center-quotas-and-tagging) [1.1b.01](#11b01) [1.1b.02](#11b02) [1.1b.03](#11b03) [1.1b.04](#11b04) [1.1b.05](#11b05) [1.1b.06](#11b06) [1.1b.07](#11b07) [1.1b.8](#11b8) [1.1b.9](#11b9) [1.1b.10](#11b10) <br/> [**1.1c**](11c-configure-azure-subscription-policies)  [1.1c.1](#11c1) [1.1c.2](#11c2) [1.1c.3](#11c3) [1.1c.4](#11c4) [1.1c.5](#11c5) [1.1c.06](#11c06) 
1.2 | [Analyze resource utilization](#12-analyze-resource-utilization) |  [**1.2a**](#12a-configure-diagnostic-settings-on-resources) [1.2a.3](#12a3) [1.2a.4](#12a4) [1.2a.5](#12a5) [1.2a.6](#12a6) [1.2a.7](#12a7) [1.2a.8](#12a8) <br/> [**1.2b**](#12b-create-and-test-alerts) [1.2b.01](#12b01) <br/> [**1.2c**](#12c-analyze-alerts-across-subscriptions) <br/> [**1.2d**](#12d-analyze-metrics-across-subscriptions) <br/> [**1.2e**](#12e-utilize-log-search-query-functions) [1.2e.01](#12e01) [1.2e.02](#12e02) [1.2e.03](#12e03) [1.2e.04](#12e04) <br/> [**1.2f**](#12f-monitor-for-unused-resources) [1.2g](#12g-monitor-and-report-spend)   [1.2g.01](#12g01) 
1.3 | [Manage resource groups](#13-manage-resource-groups) | [1.3.1](#131) [1.3.2](#132) [1.3.3](#133) [1.3.4](#134) 
1.4 | Manage role-based access control              | **1.4a** <br/> **1.4b** [1.4b.01](#14b01) [1.4b.02](#14b02) [1.4b.03](#14b03) <br/> **1.4c** [1.4c.01](#14c01) [1.4c.02](#14c02) [1.4c.03](#14c03) [1.4c.04](#14c04) [1.4c.05](#14c05) [1.4c.06](#14c06) [1.4c.07](#14c07) [1.4c.08](#14c08) [1.4c.09](#14c09) [1.4c.10](#14c10) [1.4c.11](#14c11) [1.4c.12](#14c12) [1.4c.13](#14c13)
2   | [**Implement and Manage Storage**](#2-implement-and-manage-storage)
2.1 | Create and configure storage accounts         | **2.1a** [2.1a.01](#21a01) [2.1a.02](#21a02) [2.1a.03](#21a03) [2.1a.04](#21a04) <br/> **2.1b** [2.1b.01](#21b01) <br/> **2.1c** [2.1c.01](#21c01) [2.1c.02](#21c02) [2.1c.03](#21c03) [2.1c.04](#21c04) [2.1c.05](#21c05) [2.1c.06](#21c06) [2.1c.07](#21c07) [2.1c.08](#21c08) [2.1c.09](#21c09) <br/> **2.1d** [2.1d.01](#21d01) [2.1d.02](#21d02) <br/> **2.1e** [2.1e.01](#21e01) <br/> **2.1f** [2.1f.01](#21f01) [2.1f.02](#21f02) [2.1f.03](#21f03) [2.1f.04](#21f04) [2.1f.05](#21f05) [2.1f.06](#21f06) 
2.2 | Import and export                             | **2.2a** [2.2a.01](#22a01) [2.2a.02](#22a02) [2.2a.03](#22a03) [2.2a.04](#22a04) [2.2a.05](#22a05) <br/> **2.2b** [2.2b.01](#22b01) <br/> **2.2c** [2.2c.01](#22c01) [2.2c.02](#22c02) <br/> **2.2d** <br/> **2.2e** [2.2e.01](#22e01) [2.2e.02](#22e02) [2.2e.03](#22e03) 
2.3 | Configure Azure files                         | **2.3a** [2.3a.01](#23a01) [2.3a.02](#23a02) [2.3a.03](#23a03) [2.3a.04](#23a04) [2.3a.05](#23a05) [2.3a.06](#23a06) [2.3a.07](#23a07) [2.3a.08](#23a08) <br/> **2.3b** [2.3b.01](#23b01) <br/> **2.3c** [2.3c.01](#23c01) [2.3c.02](#23c02) <br/> **2.3d** [2.3d.01](#23d01) [2.3d.02](#23d02)
2.4 | Implement Azure Backup                        |
3   | [Deploy and manage virtual machines](#3-deploy-and-manage-virtual-machines)
3.1 | Create and configure a VM for Windows and Linux | **3.1a** [3.1a.01](#31a01) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.1a.04](#31a04) [3.1a.05](#31a05) [3.1a.06](#31a06) [3.1a.07](#31a07) [3.1a.34](#31a34) [3.1a.35](#31a35) [3.1a.36](#31a36) [3.1a.37](#31a37) <br/> **3.1b** [3.1b.01](#31b01) [3.1b.02](#31b02) [3.1b.03](#31b03) <br/> **3.1c** [3.1c.01](#31c01) [3.1c.02](#31c02) <br/> **3.1e** [3.1e.01](#31e01) [3.1e.02](#31e02) [3.1e.03](#31e03) [3.1e.04](#31e04) [3.1e.05](#31e05) <br/> **3.1f** [3.1f.01](#31f01) [3.1f.02](#31f02) <br/> **3.1g** [3.1g.01](#31g01) [3.1g.02](#31g02) <br/> **3.1h** [3.1h.01](#31h01) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [3.1h.03](#31h03)
3.2 | Automate deployment of VMs                    | **3.2c** [3.2c.01](#32c01) [3.2c.02](#32c02) [3.2c.03](#32c03) <br/> **3.2d** [3.2d.01](#32d01) <br/> **3.2e** [3.2e.01](#32e01) [3.2e.02](#32e02) [3.2e.03](#32e03) [3.2e.04](#32e04) [3.2e.05](#32e05) 
3.3 | Manage Azure VM                               |  **3.3a** [3.3a.01](#33a01) [3.3a.02](#33a02) <br/> **3.3b** [3.3b.01](#33b01) [3.3b.02](#33b02) <br/> **3.3c** [3.3c.01](#33c01) [3.3c.02](#33c02) <br/> **3.3d** [3.3d.01](#33d01) [3.3d.02](#33d02) [3.3d.03](#33d03) <br/> **3.3e** [3.3e.01](#33e01) <br/> **3.3f** [3.3f.01](#33f01) [3.3f.02](#33f02) [3.3f.03](#33f03) [3.3f.04](#33f04) 
3.4 | Manage VM Backups                             | **3.4a** [3.4a.01](#34a01) <br/> **3.4d** [3.4d.01](#34d01) [3.4d.02](#34d02)
4   | [**Configure and manage virtual networks**](#4-configure-and-manage-virtual-networks)
4.1 | Implement and manage virtual networking       | **4.1d** [4.1d.01](#41d01) [4.1d.02](#41d02) [4.1d.03](#41d03) 
4.2 | Create connectivity between virtual networks  | **4.2a** [4.2a.01](#42a01) [4.2a.02](#42a02) [4.2a.03](#42a03) <br/> **4.2b** [4.2b.01](#42b01) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.2b.03](#42b03) <br/> 
4.3 | Configure name resolution                     | **4.3a** [4.3a.01](#43a01) [4.3a.02](#43a02) [4.3a.03](#43a03) <br/> **4.3b** [4.3b.01](#43b01) [4.3b.02](#43b02) [4.3b.03](#43b03) <br/> **4.3c** [4.3c.01](#43c01) 
4.4 | Create and configure a network security group | **4.4a** [4.4a.01](#44a01) <br/> **4.4c** [4.4c.01](#44c01) [4.4c.02](#44c02) [4.4c.03](#44c03) [4.4c.04](#44c04) <br/> **4.4d** [4.4d.01](#44d01) [4.4d.02](#44d02) [4.4d.03](#44d03) 
4.5 | Implement Azure load balancer                 | **4.5a** [4.5a.01](#45a01) [4.5a.02](#45a02) [4.5a.03](#45a03) [4.5a.04](#45a04) [4.5a.05](#45a05) <br/> **4.5b** [4.5b.01](#45b01) 
4.6 | Monitor and troubleshoot virtual networking   | **4.6a** [4.6a.01](#46a01) [4.6a.02](#46a02) [4.6a.03](#46a03) [4.6a.04](#46a04) [4.6a.05](#46a05) [4.6a.06](#46a06) <br/> **4.6c** [4.6c.01](#46c01) [4.6c.02](#46c02) [4.6c.03](#46c03) [4.6c.04](#46c04) [4.6c.05](#46c05) [4.6c.06](#46c06) [4.6c.07](#46c07) [4.6c.08](#46c08) [4.6c.09](#46c09) [4.6c.10](#46c10) [4.6c.11](#46c11) [4.6c.12](#46c12) [4.6c.13](#46c13) [4.6c.14](#46c14) <br/> **4.6d** [4.6d.01](#46d01) [4.6d.02](#46d02) [4.6d.03](#46d03) <br/> **4.6e** [4.6e.01](#46e01) [4.6e.02](#46e02) [4.6e.03](#46e03) [4.6e.04](#46e04) 
4.7 | Integrate on-premises network with Azure virtual network | **4.7a** [4.7a.01](#47a01) [4.7a.02](#47a02) [4.7a.03](#47a03) <br/> **4.7b** [4.7b.01](#47b01) [4.7b.02](#47b02) [4.7b.03](#47b03) <br/> **4.7c** [4.7c.01](#47c01)

# Contents
JSON files are used:
  - Policy definitions (p. 15-20)
  - VM deployment (p. 49-50, 64, 230-240
  - Custom roles (88)
  - VM deployment with DSC extension (264)
PowerShell DSC (260)
## 1: Manage Azure subscriptions and resources
### 1.1: Manage Azure Subscriptions
### 1.1a: Assign administrator permissions
Azure methods of administering access to resources can be divided into two groups
  1. __Classic__ subscription administration roles 
    - Account Administrator
    - Service Administrator
    - Co-Administrator
  2. __Role-Based Access Controls (RBAC)__: There are more than __70__ built-in RBAC roles, allowing fine-grained access management, but __4__ of them are foundational:
    1. __Owner__ has full access to all resources and __can__ delegate access. Service Administrator and Co-Administrators are assigned this role at the subscription scope.
    2. __Contributor__ can create and manage all resources, but __cannot__ delegate access.
    3. __Reader__ can view resources.
    4. __User Access Administrator__ only manages user access to resources.

Classic subscription administrators have full access to a subcription. They can access resources through Azure Portal, ARM APIs (PowerShell and CLI), and classic deployment model APIs. By default, the account that is used to sign up for a subscription is automatically set as both __Account Administrator__ and __Service Administrator__. There can only be one Account Administrator per account and only 1 Service Administrator per subscription. __Co-Administrators__ have the same access as Service Administrators, and there can be 200 of them per subscription, but cannot change the association of subscriptions to directories.\
Current assignments for classic admins can be seen in the __Properties blade__ of a subscription in Azure Portal. Co-Administrator assignments can be added by opening the __Access Control (IAM)__ blade of a subscription, then clicking the __Add co-administrator__ button.\
RBAC roles are supported only by Azure Portal and the ARM APIs. Access is applied to a __scope__, which includes subscriptions, resource groups, or resources. Azure Policy can be applied at various __scopes__. For example, a policy applied to a subscription is said to be at the "subscription scope". Policy can also be applied to Management Groups, which is an additional scope above subscription. In this way, several subscriptions can inherit a single policy through a Management Group.\
There is a built-in role named __Resource Policy Contributor__, which includes access to most Policy operations and should be considered privileged.\
RBAC roles can be used to grant rights to 2 types of principals:
  1. __User principal__: identity associated with a user or group of users.
  2. __Service principal__: identity associated with an application.\
RBAC roles can also be applied to a subscription through __Management Groups__, which represent the recommended practice for ensuring consistent application of tenant-wide security. Management groups form a hierarchy where each child inherits policy from its single parent while having additional controls. There is a single Management Group at the root of the hierarchy, associated with the Azure AD tenant (which is associated, in turn, with a subscription) that cannot be moved or deleted. 
#### 1.1a.01
Assign an RBAC role (Portal)
To assign an RBAC role to a subscription, open the __Subscription__, then the __Access Control (IAM)__ blades, then click __Add Role Assignment__. This will open a dialog box where you can select a __Role__ (e.g. Owner) then __Select__ a target principal.
### 1.1b: Configure cost center quotas and tagging
There are 2 types of quota that apply to subscriptions:
  1. __Resource quotas__ trigger alarms when resource creation and consumption hit a threshold. These are not to be confused with __resource limits__ which can stop resources from being created, whereas quotas can not.
  2. __Spending quotas__ trigger alarms when spending has reached a thresthold.
These are facilitated through the use of tags, which allow categorization of resource groups and resources. Tag **names** have a limit of 512 characters (128 characters for storage accounts) and tag **values** have a limit of 256 characters. Resources and resource groups are limited to **15** tags. VMs cannot exceed 2048 characters for all tag names and values combined. 
#### 1.1b.01
Configure resource quotas
To view resource quotas for a subscription, go to the subscription in Azure Portal and open the __Usage + quotas__ blade. From there you can select resources and then click the __Request Increase__ button. PowerShell commands used with resource quotas:
```powershell
# View current usage of vCPU quotas
Get-AzVMUsage
```
```powershell
# View current usage of storage service
Get-AzStorageUsage
``` 
#### 1.1b.02
Configure cost center quotas
Budgets can be viewed and administered in the __Cost Management + Billing__ blade. Users must be at least Reader to a subscription to view, and Contributor to create and manage, budgets. Specialized roles that grant access to Cost Management include
  - __Cost Management contributor__
  - __Cost Management reader__ \
To create a budget, open __Cost Management + Billing__, then __Subscriptions__, select a subscription, then click __Budgets__. Then click __+ Add__, which produces a Create budget blade. The created budget can be seen in the __Budgets__ blade. PowerShell commands used with budgets:
  - `Get-AzResourceGroup` retrieve Resource Group object
  - `Set-AzResourceGroup` apply a tag to a resource group with __no preexisting tags__
  - `.Tags` method that retrieves Tag collection from a resource group
  - `.Add()` method used to add tags to a resource group that __already has__ tags.
#### 1.1b.03
Tag a resource group with no existing tags (PowerShell)
```powershell
Set-AzResourceGroup -Name hrgroup -Tag @{CostCode=1001; Environment=Production}
```
#### 1.1b.04
Tag a resource group with existing tags (PowerShell)
```powershell
$tags = (Get-AzResourceGroup -Name hrgroup).Tags
$tags.Add("Owner", "user@contoso.com")
Set-AzResourceGroup -Tag $tags -Name hrgroup
```
#### 1.1b.05
Tag a resource with no existing tags (PowerShell)
```powershell
$r = Get-AzResource -ResourceName hrvm1 -ResourceGroupName hrgroup
Set-AzResource -Tag @{ CostCode="1001"; Environment="Production" } -ResourceId $r.ResourceId -Force
```
#### 1.1b.06 
Tag a resource with existing tags (PowerShell)
```powershell
$r = Get-AzResource -ResourceName hrvm1 -ResourceGroupName hrgroup
$r.Tags.Add("Owner", "user@contoso.com")
Set-AzResource -Tag $r.Tags -ResourceId $r.ResourceId -Force
```
#### 1.1b.07
Remove tags from a resource group (PowerShell)
```powershell
Set-AzResourceGroup -Tag @{} -Name hrgroup
```
#### 1.1b.08
Retrieve resource groups with a specific tag (PowerShell)
```powershell
(Get-AzResourceGroup -Tag @{ Owner="user@contoso.com" }).ResourceGroupName
```
#### 1.1b.09
Retrieve resources with a specific tag (PowerShell)
```powershell
(Get-AzResource -Tag @{ Owner="user@contoso.com"}).Name
```
#### 1.1b.10
Retrieve resources based on a tag name but no value (PowerShell)
```powershell
(Get-AzResource -TagName CostCode).Name
```
### 1.1c: Configure Azure subscription policies
__Azure Policy__ is a service that can create, assign, and manage policies to enforce governance. Policy definitions, authored in JSON, implement policy by describing desired behavior for Azure resources when they are created or updated.\
To implement policy, a **policy definition** is created first, then a **policy assignment** assigns it to a scope. Policy definitions can be packaged together using **initiative definitions** and applied to a scope using **initiative assignments**
Comparison of Azure Policy and RBAC roles:
  - **RBAC roles** 
    - Control individual user and group access at specific scopes
    - Deny by default, allow explicitly
  - **Azure Policy** 
    - Allows environment to be governed for all users at a specific scope.
    - Allow by default, deny explicitly\
Azure Policy definition schema elements:
  - `mode`: which resources are scoped
    - `all`: both resource groups and all resources (default for policies defined in Portal)
    - `indexed`: only resource types that support tags and location (not all of them do)
  - `policyRule`
    - `if` block defines one or more conditions with logical operators
      - `field`: `type` represents type of resource being created based on the resource provider it belongs to
    - `then`: action to be taken
      - `effect` can have several values
        - `deny` generate an event in the activity log and fail the request
        - `audit` generate a warning event in the activity log but do not fail the request
        - `append` adds defined set of fields to the request
        - `auditifnotexists` enables auditing if a resource doesn't exist
        - `deployifnotexists` deploy a resource if it doesn't already exist
        - `disabled` don't evaluate resources for compliance to policy
      - `details`
  - `parameters`: make policy definitions reusable
    - name: i.e. `listOfAllowedSKUs`
      - `type` can be `string` or `array`
      - `metadata` is used by the Portal to display information for parameters; includes sub-properties `displayName`, `description`, and optionally `strongType`. `strongType` will produce a context menu of selections available populated by resources matching the value (i.e. if `vmSKUs` is the value it will produce a list of VMs when applying the policy)
      - `defaultValue`
      - `allowedValues`
#### 1.1c.01
Create a policy definition (Portal)
Open __All Services__, then __Policy__, then the __Definitions__ blade. Both builtin and custom policies can be managed here.
#### 1.1c.02
Register resource provider in subscription (Azure CLI)
```bash
az provider register --namespace 'Microsoft.PolicyInsights'
```
#### 1.1c.03
Define a policy (Azure CLI)
```bash
az policy definition create --name 'allowedVMs' --description 'Only allow virtual machines in the defined SKUs' --mode ALL --rules '{...}' --params '{...}'
```
#### 1.1c.04
Apply policy to a scope (Azure CLI)
```bash
az policy assignment create --policy allowedVMs --name 'deny-non-compliant-vms' --scope '/subscriptions/<Subscription ID>' -p
```
#### 1.1c.05
Delete policy assignment (Azure CLI)
```bash
az policy assignment delete --name deny-non-compliant-vms
```
#### 1.1c.06
Azure Policy commands in PowerShell
```powershell
# Create a policy definition
New-AzPolicyDefinition
  -Name 'appendEnvironmentTag'
  -DisplayName 'Append Environment TAg'
  -Policy 'AppendDefaultTag.json'
  -Parameter 'AppendDefaultTagParams.json'
$scope = '/subscriptions/$subscriptionID'
$policyparam = '{
  "tagName" : {
    "value": "Environment" },
  "tagValue": {
    "value" : "Production" } }'
$assignment = New-AzPolicyAssignment
  -Name 'append-environment-tag'
  -DisplayName 'Append Environment Tag'
  -Scope $scope 
  -PolicyDefinition $definition
  -PolicyParameter $policyparam

# Remove policy assignment and definition
Remove-AzPolicyAssignment -Id $assignment.ResourceId
Remove-AzPolicyDefinition -Id $definition.ResourceId
```
### 1.2: Analyze resource utilization
A robust monitoring strategy implementing proactive notifications helps to increase uptime and optimize performance. Azure offers __Azure Monitor__ and __Azure Advisor__.
  - __Azure Monitor__ provides a single point of contact for both metrics and logs. 
  - __Azure Advisor__ is a free, personalized guide to Azure best practices that provides recommendations to help you optimize resources.
Distinction between __metrics__ and __logs__:
  - Metrics are strictly numerical, while logs can be numerical or textual
  - Metrics are continuously collected, while log entries are less predictable
Azure Monitor can create __alert rules__ that are built on target resources or resource type and that proactively notify you of the health of resources and can also leverage action groups that automate actions to take in certain conditions.
### 1.2a: Configure diagnostic settings on resources
__Diagnostics logs__ are a type of log data that can be configured to send data to other locations, such as a Storage account or __Log Analytics__ workspace. Diagnostics logs have to be enabled for each resource to be monitored. Settings can be configured through Portal, ARM APIs, or the Azure Monitor REST APIs. __Azure Activity logs__ are another type of data that is surfaced at the subscription level, but lacks resource-level detail.
#### 1.2a.1
Enable diagnostics log collection with a storage account (Portal)
Browse to the resource itself. Alternatively, open __Azure Monitor__ and then the __Diagnostics Settings__ blade. From there you can view all eligible resouce types and view status of log collection. 
#### 1.2a.2
Enable diagnostics log collection with a storage account (PowerShell)
`Set-AzDiagnostic-Setting` requires resource ID of resource being enabled (can be found with `Get-AzResource`) and resource ID of storage account (passed to `StorageAccountId` parameter).
```powershell
$resource = Get-AzResource -Name $resourceName -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName
$storage = Get-AzResource -Name $resourceName -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName
Set-AzDiagnosticSetting -ResourceId $resource.ResourceId -StorageAccountId $storage.ResourceId -Enabled $true
```
#### 1.2a.3
Enable diagnostics log streaming to an Event Hub (PowerShell) 
```powershell
$rule = Get-AzServiceBusRule -ResourceGroup $resourceGroupName -Namespace $namespace -Topic $topic -Subscription $subscription -Name $ruleName
Set-AzDiagnosticSetting -ResourceId $resource.ResourceId -ServiceBusRuleId $rule.Id -Enabled $true
```
#### 1.2a.4
Enable diagnostics logs collection in a Log Analytics workspace (PowerShell)
```powershell
$workspace = Get-AzOperationalInsightsWorkspace -Name $workspaceName -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName
Set-AzDiagnosticSetting -ResourceId $resource.ResourceId -WorkspaceId $workspace.ResourceId -Enabled $true
```
#### 1.2a.5
Obtain resource ID (Azure CLI)
`az monitor diagnostic-settings create` to enable diagnostic logs. `az resource show` to obtain resource ID.
```bash
resourceId=$(az resource show -resource-group $resourceGroupName -name $resourceName --resource-type $resourceType --query id --output tsv)
```
#### 1.2a.6
Enable diagnostics log collection with a storage account (Azure CLI)
```bash
az monitor diagnostic-settings create --name $diagnosticName --storage-account $storageId --resource $resouceId --resource-group $resourceGroup \
  --logs '[ {
    "category": <categoryName>,
    "enabled": true,
    "retentionPolicy": {
      "days": <numberOfDays>,
      "enabled": true } } ] '
```
#### 1.2a.7
Enable diagnostics log streaming to an Event Hub (Azure CLI)
```bash
az monitor diagnostic-settings create --name $diagnosticName --event-hub $eventHubName --event-hub-rule $eventHubRuleId --resource $targetResourceId \
  --logs '[{
    "category": <categoryName>,
    "enabled": true }]'
```
#### 1.2a.8
Enable diagnostics logs collection in a Log Analytics workspace (Azure CLI)
```bash
az monitor diagnostic-settings create --name $diagnosticName --workspace $logAnalyticsName --resource $resourceId --resouce-group $resourceGroup \
  --logs '[{
    "category": <categoryName>,
    "enabled": true }]'
```
### 1.2b: Create and test alerts
> Task: 1.2b.1 Create an alert rule (Portal)\
__Azure Monitor__ brings a unified alerting experience to Azure, with a single pane of glass for interacting with metrics, the __Activity Log__, __Log Analytics__, service and resource health and service-specific insights. Alerts have many notification options, including email, SMS, mobile app, voice, and integration with automation. Alerts are centered on but distinct from __alert rules__, which contain:
  - **Name and description**
  - __Target resource__, an Azure resource that generates signals, defines the scope and signals available for the alert.
  - __Signal__ (i.e. metric or Activity Log) emitted by target resource. Signals are of 3 types: 
    1. Metrics
    2. Log search queries 
    3. Activity logs
  - __Conditional logic__ for alert combines the signal and a logical test to trigger alert.
  - __Action Group__ determines what will happen when the alert is trigged. Action groups are themselves resources, and thus located in a subscription and resource group, and have:
    - **Name**
    - **Short name** is used to identify the Action Group in emails and notifications and is limited to 12 characters
    - **Actions** define the configuration for a specific action type. Available types includ:
      - Email/SMS/Push/Voice
      - Azure Function
      - Logic App
      - Webhook
      - ITSM
      - Automation Runbook
  - Severity (0-4)
#### 1.2b.01
Create an alert rule (Portal)
1. **Alerts**
2. **New Alert Rule** button
### 1.2c: Analyze alerts across subscriptions 
Alerts can have 3 states:
  - **New** and not reviewed
  - **Acknowledged** issue is being actioned by an admin
  - **Closed** issue that generated the alerts has been resolved and the alert has been marked as closed
These are changed by admins, not by the Azure platform.
### 1.2d: Analyze metrics across subscriptions 
Metrics are the numerical values output by resources and services within Azure. They are collected a 1-minute intervals, identified by a metric name and namespace (category). Metrics can be one-dimensional or have up to 10 dimensions, and have the following properties:
  - **Time** the value was collected
  - **Type** of measurement made
  - **Resource** associated with value
  - **Value**
Metrics can be stored in:
  - Azure Monitor for 93 days
  - __Log Analytics__ for 2 years
  - Storage account, where they are treated according to the retention policy and storage limits of the account.
### 1.2e Utilize log search query functions 
Comparison of logs and metrics\
Feature               | Logs                        | Metrics
:---                  | :---                        | :---
**Retention**         | Stored in Log Analytics (2 years) | Stored in Monitor for 93 days, but metrics can be sent to Log Analytics and Storage accounts as well
**Properties**        | Varying properties for each log, with support for rich data types such as date and time | Fixed set of properties (or attributes): time, type, resource, value, and (optionally) dimensions.
**Data availability** | Triggered by an event, requiring time to process before they are available for querying | Gathered at intervals and available for immediate querying.

**Log Analytics workspace** is where logs are collected and aggregated. The logs can be queried through Log Analytics or Monitor. Because a workspace is a resource, RBAC can be applied to control access to it. 
A workspace requires:
  - **Name** for the workspace
  - **Subscription** associated with it
  - **Resource group**
  - **Location**
  - **Pricing tier selection**
#### 1.2e.01
Create a workspace
#### 1.2e.02
Create a workspace (PowerShell, CLI)
#### 1.2e.03:
Collect event and performance data from Windows and Linux machines
#### 1.2e.04:
Create alert rules from within query interface
### 1.2f Monitor for unused resources
__Azure Advisor__ offers personalized recommendations across 4 domains:
  - High availability
  - Security
  - Performance
  - Cost\
Virtual machines can be one of the most expensive resources in a cloud implementation, and there are several ways to reduce their cost
  - Deallocate compute when not needed
  - Delete unused virtual machines and allocate them only on demand
  - Right-size VMs so that you don't overuse resources\
Advisor can also identify
  - ExpressRoute circuits that have been "Not Provisioned" for more than 30 days
  - Gateways that have been idle for more than 90 days
### 1.2g Monitor and report spend
Cloudyn
Once a workspace is configured, machines can be onboarded. In order to report telemetry to Log Analytics, they must be running the **Azure Log Analytics (OMS) agent**, which needs to have port 443 open for inbound and outbound traffic on telemetered machines.\
Log Analytics uses the __Kusto__ query language. Kusto queries use the pipe character to separate commands, always begin with a scope, are case-sensitive, and generate read-only requests so log entries are only deleted based on retention policy.
Customers on an __Enterprise Agreement__ can add up-front commitments to Azure then be billed annually. If the committed spend is exceeded, the overage is billed at the same EA rate. EA customers can create spending quotas and set notification thresholds through the EA Portal.\
3 portals used to manage Azure subscriptions
  1. EA Portal (ea.azure.com) available only to customers with an Enterprise Agreement
  2. Account Portal
  3. Azure Portal, includes Azure Cost Management
#### 1.2g.01
Enable Cloudyn (Portal)
1. Open **Cost Management + Billing**
2. Open **Cost Management**
3. Click Cloudyn
4. Register with Cloudyn
### 1.3: Manage resource groups
A resource group may not be nested within another, and although a resource may only be associated with a single resource group at a time, they can be moved around at will and resources from different resource groups can interact with one another. Resource groups can also be used to scope both access control and policy. Finally, a resource group is created in a location, which specified where its metadata is stored. Automating the creation and configuration of resources is recommended for consistent environments. To do this, use __Resource Manager templates__, which are JSON files that define the infrastructure and configuration of Azure resources.\
Resource Manager template required properties:
  - $schema
  - `contentVersion`
  - `resources`\
Optional properties:
  - `parameters`
  - `variables`
  - `functions`
  - `outputs`
#### 1.3.1
Delete a resource group (PowerShell)
```powershell
Remove-AzResourceGroup -Name $resourceGroup
```
#### 1.3.2
Delete a resource group without confirmation (PowerShell)
```powershell
Remove-AzResourceGroup -Name $resourceGroup -Force
```
#### 1.3.3
Delete a resource group (CLI)
```bash
az group delete --name $resourceGroup
```
#### 1.3.4
Delete a resource group without confirmation (CLI)
```bash
az group delete --name $resourceGroup --yes
```
### 1.4: Manage role-based access control
### 1.4a: Role-Based Access Control
RBAC is configured by selecting a **role** and associating it with a **security principal**, such as a user, group, or service identity. Child reosurces inherit the roles of their parents (role inheritance).
### 1.4b: How RBAC works
Components of a role assignment:
  1. **Security principal**: objects associated with a role definition and a scope to apply RBAC to azure resources (i.e. a user, group, service principal, or **managed identity** which is an application registration that is managed automatically by Azure and an Azure service)
  2. **Role definition**: list of permissions which define what actions can or cannot be performed against a resource. In addition to the 4 foundational roles, there are many other built-in roles and custom roles can be defined using a JSON file.
  3. **Scope**: 4 scopes at which RBAC can be applied: Management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, and resources
#### 1.4b.01:
Retrieve the definition of a role (PowerShell)
```powershell
Get-AzRoleDefinition -Name "Virtual Machine Contributor" | ConvertTo-Json
```
#### 1.4b.02:
Retrieve the definition of a role (Azure CLI)
```bash
az role definition list -n "Virtual Machine Contributor"
```
#### 1.4b.03:
Retrieve operations that support `DataActions` and `NotDataActions` (PowerShell)
```powershell
Get-AzProviderOperation * |? { $_.IsDataAction -eq $true }
```
### 1.4c: Implementing RBAC using the portal
#### 1.4c.01:
Assign a role to a user (Portal)
1. Navigate to resource group
2. Open Access Control (IAM)
3. Open **Role Assignments** tab
4. Click **Add**
5. Select **Add Role Assignment**
#### 1.4c.02:
Remove a role assignment (Portal)
1. Navigate to resource group
2. Open Access Control (IAM)
3. Open **Role Assignments** tab
4. Select one or more security principals and click **Remove**
#### 1.4c.03:
List roles available for assignment (PowerShell)
```powershell
Get-AzRoleDefinition | Where-Object { $_.IsCustom -eq $true }
```
#### 1.4c.04:
List custom roles available for assignment (Azure CLI)
```bash
az role definition list --custom-role-only -o table
```
#### 1.4c.05:
View all role assignments in a subscription (Azure CLI)
```bash
az role assignment list --all
```
#### 1.4c.06:
Grant a user RBAC rights (PowerShell)
```powershell
New-AzRoleAssignment -SignInName "cloudadmin@opsgility.onmicrosoft.com" -RoleDefinitionName "Virtual Machine Contributor" -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.07:
Grant a user RBAC rights (Azure CLI)
```bash
az role assignment create --assignee "cloudadmin@opsgility.onmicrosoft.com" --role "Virtual Machine Contributor" --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.08:
Grant a group RBAC rights (PowerShell)
```powershell
$group = Get-AzADGroup -SearchString "Cloud Admins"
New-AzRoleAssignment -ObjectId $group.Id -RoleDefinitionName "Virtual Machine Contributor" -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.09:
Grant a group RBAC rights (Azure CLI)
```bash
groupid=$(az ad group list --query "[?displayName=='Cloud Admins'].objectId" -o tsv)
az role assignment create --role "Virtual Machine Contributor" --assignee-object-id $groupid --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.10:
Remove RBAC assignments from a user (PowerShell)
```powershell
Remove-AzRoleAssignment -SignInName "cloudadmin@opsgility.onmicrosoft.com" -RoleDefinitionName "Virtual Machine Contributor" -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.11:
Remove RBAC assignments from a group (PowerShell)
```powershell
$group = Get-AzADGRoup -SearchString "Cloud Admins"
Remove-AzRoleAssignment -ObjectId $group.Id -RoleDefinitionName "Virtual Machine Contributor" -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.12:
Remove RBAC assignments from a user (Azure CLI)
```bash
az role assignment delete --role "Virtual Machine Contributor" --assignee "cloudadmin@opsgility.onmicrosoft.com" --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
#### 1.4c.13:
Remove RBAC assignments from a group (Azure CLI)
```bash
groupid=$(az ad group list --query "[?displayName=='CloudAdmins'].objectId" -o tsv)
az role assignment delete --role "Virtual Machine Contributor" --assignee-object-id $groupid --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
## 2: Implement and Manage Storage
### 2.1: Create and configure storage accounts
### 2.1a: Create and configure a storage account
4 storage services provided within each storage account:
  1. **Blobs** provides a highly scalable service for storing arbitrary data objects, such as text or binary data
  2. **Tables** provides a NoSQL-style store for storing structured data. Tables in Azure storage do not require a fixed schema, thus different entries in the same table can have different fields
  3. **Queues** provides reliable message queueing between application components
  4. **Files** provides managed file shares that can be used by VMs or on-premises servers

Types of storage blobs
  1. Block blobs
  2. Append blobs
  3. Page blobs: used to store VHD files when deploying unmanaged disks (not recommended)

Options that must be selected when creating a storage account:
  - Performance tier
  - Account kind
  - Replication option
  - Access tier 

Performance tiers:
  1. **Standard** supports all storage services and uses magnetic disks to provide cost-efficient and reliable storage
  2. **Premium** only supports page blobs with the locally-redundant (LRS) replication option, uses high-performance SSD disks

Replication options:
  - **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** makes 3 local sychronous (within a single datacenter) copies 
  - **Zone-redundant storage (ZRS)** makes 3 synchronous copies across multiple availability zones; available for general-purpose v2 storage accounts at **Standard** performance tier only.
  - **Geographically-redundant storage (GRS)** makes 3 local synchronous copies plus 3 additional asynchronous copies (typically within 15 minutes, but no SLA) to a second data center far away from the primary region
  - **Read-access geographically redundant storage (RA-GRS)** makes 3 local synchronous copies plus 3 additional asynchronous copies to a second data center far away from the primary region, which has only read-only access

Blob storage access tiers
  1. **Hot** blob storage access tier optimized for the frequent access of objects in the storage account
  2. **Cool** blob storage access tier optimized for storing large amounts of data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days
  3. **Archive** blob storage access tier designed for long-term storage of infrequently-used data that can tolerate several hours of retrieval latency, remaining in the Archive tier for at least 180 days. It is stored offline and can take up to 15 hours for it to be "rehydrated" to the Cool or Hot tier before it can be accessed.
  4. **Premium** providing high-performance access for frequently-used data on SSD, only available from the **Block Blob** storage account type.

Account kinds:
  1. General-purpose V2: only kind to support ZRS
  2. General-purpose V1: does not support various access tiers.
  3. Blob storage: specialized storage account used to store block and append blobs

Both Blob and StorageV1 can be upgraded to StorageV2, a process which is irreversible. 
#### 2.1a.01:
Create a storage account (Portal)
Click **Create a resouce**, then **Storage**, then **Storage account**. Choose a **globally** unique name for the account, containing lower-case characters and digits only.
#### 2.1a.02:
Create a storage account (PowerShell)
```powershell
New-AzStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Name mystorage112300 -SkuName Standard_LRS -Location WestUS -Kind StorageV2 -AccessTier Hot
```
#### 2.1a.03:
Create a storage account (CLI)
```bash
az storage account create --name $accountName --resource-group $resourceGroup -location $location --sku $sku
```
#### 2.1a.04:
Change storage account's access tier, without confirmation (PowerShell)
```powershell
Set-AzStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName RG -Name $accountName -AccessTier Cool -Force
```
### 2.1b: Configure network access to the storage account
Storage accounts are managed through __Azure Resource Manager__ and management operations are authenticated and authorized using __Azure Active Directory__. Every storage account service exposes its own Internet-facing endpoint, which must be secured in one of several ways.\
The __storage firewall__ controls IP addresses and VNets can access the storage account and applies to all storage account services.\ 
For blob storage only, an additional access control is available. By default, no public read access is enabled for anonymous users, but users with RBAC rights or with the storage account name and key can have access. This can be done through ARM APIs, the Portal, or Azure Storage Explorer. Container access levels:
  - No public read access: container and blobs can only be accessed by storage account owner  (default for new containers)
  - Public read-only access for blobs only (container data is not available, and anonymous clients cannot enumerate the blobs within the container)
  - Full public read-only access: all container and blob data can be read by anonymous requests:
#### 2.1b.01:
Configure service endpoints (Portal)
1. Specify `Microsoft.Storage` in the service endpoint settings of the VNet subnet
2. Configure which VNets can access a particular storage account
### 2.1c: Manage access keys
Access keys grant full access to all data in all services of a storage account and represent the simplest and most powerful control over access. Access keys are typically used by applications for access to Azure storage, either through a __Shared Access Signature (SAS)__ token or directly accessing the storage itself with the name and key.\ 
Access keys can be regenerated using the Portal or CLI tools (`New-AzStorageAccountKey` or `az storage account keys renew`)
#### 2.1c.01:
Access storage account name and key (Portal)
1. Open storage account
2. Open **Access keys** blade
Renew storage account access keys
```powershell
New-AzStorageAccountKey
```
```bash
az storage account keys renew
```
#### 2.1c.02:
Create an Azure Key Vault (PowerShell)
```powershell
New-AzKeyVault -VaultName $vaultName -Name $keyName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $location
```
#### 2.1c.03:
Store a software managed key in Azure Key Vault (PowerShell)
```powershell
$key = Add-AzKeyVaultKey -VaultName $vaultName -Name $keyName -Destination 'Software'
```
#### 2.1c.04:
Retrieve a storage account key (PowerShell)
```powershell
$storageKey = Get-AzStorageAccountKey -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $storageAccount 
```
#### 2.1c.05:
Convert storage account key to secure string
```powershell
$secretvalue = ConvertTo-SecureString $storageKey[0].Value -AsPlainText -Force
```
#### 2.1c.06:
Set secret value to be used in Azure Key Vault (PowerShell)
```powershell
$secret = Set-AzKeyVaultSecret -VaultName $vaultName -Name $secretName -SecretValue $secretvalue
```
#### 2.1c.07:
Create an Azure Key Vault (Azure CLI)
```bash
az keyvault create --name $vaultName --resource-group $rgName --location $location
```
#### 2.1c.08:
Store a software managed key in Azure Key Vault (Azure CLI)
```bash
az keyvault key create --vault-name $vaultName --name $keyName --protection "software"
```
#### 2.1c.09:
Set secret value to be used in Azure Key Vault (Azure CLI)
```bash
az keyvault secret set --vault-name $vaultName --name $secretName --value $secretValue
```
### 2.1d: Generate a shared access signature
Generate SAS tokens using Storage Explorer or the CLI. PowerShell commands:
  - `New-AzStorageAccountSASToken`
  - `New-AzStorageBlobSASToken`
  - `New-AzStorageContainerSASToken`
  - `New-AzStorageFileSASToken`
  - `New-AzStorageQueueSASToken`
  - `New-AzStorageShareSASToken`
  - `New-AzStorageTableSASToken`
#### 2.1d.01:
Create a SAS token for a specific storage blob (PowerShell)
```powershell
$storageKey = Get-AzStorageAccountKey -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $accountName
$context = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountName $accountName -StorageAccountKey $storageKey[0].Value
$startTime = Get-Date
$endTime = $startTime.AddHours(4)

New-AzStorageBlobSASToken -Container $container -Blob $blob -Permission "rwd" -StartTime $startTime -ExpiryTime $startTime.AddHours(4) -Context $context
```
#### 2.1d.02:
Create a SAS token for a specific storage blob (Azure CLI)
```bash
az storage blob generate-sas --account-name "storageAccount" --account-key $storageAccountKey --container-name $container --name $blobName --permissions r --expiry "2019-05-31"
```
### 2.1e: Monitor activity log by using Log Analytics
**Azure Activity log** is a subscription level log that captures events that range from operational data (i.e. resource creation, deletion) to service health events for a subscription.
#### 2.1e.01:
Access Activity Log data (Portal)
1. Find **Management + Governance** in **All Services**
2. Open **Activity Log**
3. Click Logs icon at top of Activity Log view to select an existing Log Analytics (OMS) workspace or create a new one
### 2.1f: Implement Azure Storage replication
Storage accounts can be moved freely between LRS, GRS, and RA-GRS replication modes. The data will be replicated in the background asynchronously as required. But ZRS works differently, and the data should simply be copied to a new storage account if the replication option needs to be changed.
#### 2.1f.01:
Change replication mode of a storage account (PowerShell)
```powershell
Set-AzStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup -Name $accountName -SkuName $type
```
#### 2.1f.02:
Use async blob copy service to copy a file (PowerShell)
```powershell
$blobCopyState = Start-AzStorageBlobCopy -SrcBlob $blobName -SrcContainer $srcContainer -Context $srcContext -DestContainer $destContainer -DestBlob $vhdName -DestContext $destContext
```
```powershell
# Get storage account keys
$srcStorageKey = Get-AzStorageAccountKey -ResourceGroupName $sourceRGName -Name $srcStorageAccount
$destStorageKey = Get-AzStorageAccountKey -ResourceGroupName $destRGName -Name $destStorageAccount
```
```powershell
# Create storage account contexts
$srcContext = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountName $srcStorageAccount -StorageAccountKey $srcStorageKey.Value[0]
$destContext = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountNAme $destStorageAccount -StorageAccountKey $destStorageKey.Value[0]
```
```powershell
# Create new container in destination account
New-AzStorageContainer -Name $destContainer -Context $destContext
```
```powershell
# Make the copy
$copiedBlob = Start-AzStorageBlobCopy -SrcBlob $blobName -SrcContainer $srcContainer -Context $srcContext -DestContainer $destContainer -DestBlob $blobName -DestContext $destContext
```
#### 2.1f.03:
Monitor progress of the async blob copy (PowerShell)
```powershell
$copiedBlob | Get-AzStorageBlobCopyState
```
#### 2.1f.04:
Copy a blob from one storage account to another (Azure CLI)
```bash
az storage blob copy start --account-name $destStorageAccount --account-key $destStorageKey --destination-blob $blobName --source-account-name $srcStorageAccount --source-container $srcContainer --source-blob $blobName --source-account-key $srcStorageKey
```
#### 2.1f.05:
Monitor progress of the async blob copy (Azure CLI)
```bash
az storage blob show --account-name $destStorageAccount --account-key $destStorageKey --container-name $destContainer --name $blobName
```
#### 2.1f.06:
Use AzCopy to copy a blob
```cmd
AzCopy /Source:https://sourceblob.blob.core.windows.net/sourcecontainer/ /Dest:https://deststorage.blob.core.windows.net/destcontainer/ /SourceKey:sourcekey /DestKey:destkey /Pattern:disk1.vhd
```
### 2.2: Import and export
### 2.2a: Configure and use Azure blob storage
There can be multiple **containers** within a storage account, and a container can have its own folder structure.\ 
3 types of blob:
  1. **Page blob**
  2. **Block blob**
  3. **Append blob**
#### 2.2a.01:
Create a storage container (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Get account key
$storageKey = Get-AzStorageAccountKey -Name $storageAccount -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroup
```
```powershell
# Create and store the storage context
$context = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountName $storageAccount -StorageAccountKey $storageKey.Value[0]
Set-AzCurrentStorageAccount -Context $context
```
```powershell
# Create storage container
New-AzStorageContainer -Name $container -Permission Off
```
```powershell
# Create storage blob
Set-AzStorageBlobContent -File $localFile -Container $container -Blob $blobName
```
#### 2.2a.02:
Create a storage container (Azure CLI)
`az storage container create` parameters:
  - `public-access` used to set permissions: values include 
    - `off` 
    - `blob`
    - `container`
```bash
az storage container create --account-name $storageaccount --name $containername --public-access off
```
#### 2.2a.03:
Upload a file (Azure CLI)
`az storage blob upload` is used to upload a file
```bash
az storage blob upload --container-name $containerName --account-name $accountName --account-key $accountKey --file $file --name $blobName
```
#### 2.2a.04:
Download a blob from a container (AzCopy)
```cmd
AzCopy copy https://storageAccount.blob.core.windows.net/sourceContainer/path/to/blob?SASToken localFilePath
```
#### 2.2a.05:
Upload a blob to a container (AzCopy)
```cmd
AzCopy copy localFilePath https://storageAccount.blob.core.windows.net/destinationContainer/path/to/blob?SASToken
```
### 2.2b: Create export from Azure job
#### 2.2b.01:
Export data (Portal)
1. From **All Services** open **Import/Export Jobs**
2. Open **Create Import/Export Job**
3. Select **Basics** tab
4. Choose **Export From Azure**, specifying job name and resource group to contain the job
5. Select **Job Details** tab
6. Select which storage account to export from and choose blobs to export.
7. Select **Return Shipping Info**
8. Specify carrier information and address for disks to be shipped to
9. Select **Summary** tab
10. Click OK
### 2.2c: Create import into Azure job
#### 2.2c.01:
Import data
1. Install Azure Import/Export tool
2. Prepare drives and copy data to drives. Specify destination storage account key, BitLocker key (available from Portal), and log directory, among other parameters, in the first session
```cmd
WAImportExport.exe PrepImport \
  /j:JournalFile \
  /id:SessionId \
  /logdir:LogDirectory \
  /t:SourceDriveLetter \
  /srcdir/SourceFolder \
  /dstdir:DestinationPath
```
3. Create an import job through the Portal
#### 2.2c.02:
Create an import job (Portal)
1. From **All Services** open **Import/Export Jobs**
2. Open **Create Import/Export Job**
3. Select **Basics** tab
4. Select **Import into Azure**, specifying job name and resource group to contain the job
5. Select **Job Details** tab
6. Choose journal file created with the Import/Export Tool
7. Select **Return Shipping Info**
8. Specify carrier information and return address
9. Select **Summary** tab
10. Click OK
11. Physically ship disks to Microsoft
### 2.2d: Use Azure Data Box
3 variations of Data Box:
  - **Data Box Disk**: up to 35 TB and 1 storage account
  - **Data Box**: up to 80 TB and 10 storage accounts
  - **Data Box Heavy**: up to 800 TB and 10 storage accounts
Workflow of Data Box usage:
  1. Order: Use Portal to order a data box by creating a Data Box resource
  2. Receive: Connect Data Box to network
  3. Copy data: Mount file shares and copy data to the device.
  4. Return: to Microsoft
  5. Upload: Microsoft will upload the data and securely erase it from the device
### 2.2e: Configure Azure content delivery network (CDN) endpoints
Users can use Azure as a CDN cache, reducing load from website. Content is cached by the CDN until its **time-to-live (TTL)** elapses, which can be controlled in the HTTP response from the origin server.\
Permanently removing content from the CDN requires it be first removed from the origin servers, meaning if the content is in a storage account it should be set to private or deleted from the storage, or the container itself should be deleted. Cached copies may remain in the CDN endpoint until the TTL has expired, unless it is **purged**.\
Custom domains can be used by implementing **CNAME** DNS records, which are used in DNS to map alias domain names to the "canonical" name.
#### 2.2e.01:
Publish content in a CDN endpoint (Portal)
1. Create a new CDN profile
2. Add an endpoint to the profile
#### 2.2e.02:
Create a new CDN profile (Portal)
1. Click **Create a resource** 
2. Click **Web**
3. Click **CDN**, opening the CDN profile blade
4. Specify name for the profile, name of the resource group, region, and pricing tier.
5. Click **Create**
#### 2.2e.03:
Add an endpoint to a CDN profile (Portal)
1. Open the CDN Profile
2. Click **+ Endpoint** button
3. Specify unique name, configuration for origin settings such as type, host header, and origin port for HTTP and HTTPS.
4. Click **Add** button
### 2.3: Configure Azure files
__Azure File Service__ allows you to create one or more file shares in the cloud (up to 5 TB per share), similar to a regular Windows File Server. It supports SMB protocol, so you can connect directly to a file share from outside of Azure, if traffic to port 445 is allowed through the LAN and ISP. It can also be mapped within Windows.
### 2.3a: Using Azure File Service
Use cases:
  - Replace on-premises file servers
  - Easily replicate data on-premises to make it available during lift-and-shift migrations
  - Simply cloud development and management
#### 2.3a.01:
Create an Azure File Share (Portal)
1. Open a standard Azure storage account (not premium)
2. **Files**
3. **+ File Share** button
#### 2.3a.02:
Create an Azure File Share (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Get key of storage account
$storageKey = Get-AzStorageAccountKey -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $storageAccount 
# Get context from storage key
$context = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountName $storageAccount -StorageAccountKey $storageKey.Value[0]
# Create the file share with the context
New-AzStorageShare -Name $shareName -Context $context
```
#### 2.3a.03:
Create an Azure File Share (CLI)
```powershell
# Get the connection string associated with the account
constring=$(az storage account show-connection-string -n $storageAccountName)
# Create the file share with the connection string
az storage share create --name $shareName --quota 2048 --connection-string $constring
```
#### 2.3a.04:
Connect to and mount an Azure File Share (Windows File Explorer)
1. Right-click on **This PC**
2. Click **Map Network Drive** option
3. Specify drive letter to be used 
4. Specify folder: `\\<storageAccount>.files.core.windows.net\<shareName>`
5. Click **Finish**
6. In the dialog box that opens login with the username: `AZURE\<storageName>`
7. Password should be access key for the storage account
#### 2.3a.05:
Connect to and mount an Azure File Share (net use command)
```cmd
net use x \\erstandard01.file.core.windows.net\logs /u:AZURE\erstandard01 <accessKey>
```
#### 2.3a.06:
Connect to and mount an Azure File Share (PowerShell)
`New-PSDrive` maps the drive
```powershell
$storageKey = (Get-AzStorageAccountKey -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $storageNAme).Value[0]
$acctKey = ConvertTo-SecureString -String $storageKey -AsPlainText -Force
$credential = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential -ArgumentList "Azure\$storageName", $acctKey
New-PSDrive -Name "Z" -PSProvider FileSystem -Root "\\$storageName.file.core.windows.net\$shareName" -Credential $credential
```
#### 2.3a.07:
Automatically reconnect after reboot in Windows
```
cmdkey /add:storageAccountName.file.core.windows.net /user:AZURE\storageAccountName /pass:storageAccountKey
```
#### 2.3a.08:
Connect to and mount an Azure File Share (Linux)
Mounting to `/logs`
```bash
sudo mount -t cifs //$storageAccount.file.core.windows.net/logs /logs -o "vers=3.0,username=$storageAccount,password=$storageAccountKey,dir_mode=0777,file_mode=0777,sec=ntlmssp"
```
### 2.3b: Create Azure File Sync service
**Azure File Sync** extends Azure File Service to allow on-premises file services to be extended to Azure while maintaining performance and compatibility.
#### 2.3b.01:
Create the Azure File Sync Service (Portal)
Create a resource **Storage** **Azure File Sync**
### 2.3c: Create Azure sync group
#### 2.3c.01:
Create a sync group (Portal)
Specify name of sync group in dialog after creating an Azure File Sync (2.3b.1)
#### 2.3c.02:
Add endpoints to Azure File Sync Group (Portal)
1. Register a server to the sync group by installing **Azure File Sync agent** on each server. When installing, you sign in with your subscription's credentials, then register the server by providing the Subscription, Resource Group, and Storage Sync Service names.
2. Click **Add Server Endpoint**. This will display a dropdown of all servers with the agent installed and associated with the sync service.
### 2.3d: Troubleshoot Azure File Sync
Several procedures to be used when Azure File Sync is having issues
#### 2.3d.01:
Collect logs to troubleshoot issues with Azure File Sync agent installation
```
StorageSyncAgent.msi /l*v AFSInstaller.log
```
#### 2.3d.02:
Remove the server from registered sync group
Error message "This server is already registered during registration"
```powershell
Import-Module "C:\Program Files\Azure\StorageSyncAgent\StorageSync.Management.ServerCmdlets.dll"
Reset-StorageSyncServer
```
### 2.4: Implement Azure Backup
### 2.4a: Create Recovery Services Vault
### 2.4b: Backup and restore data
Types of backup agents that can be used with **Azure Backup**
  - Microsoft Azure Recovery Services (MARS) agent
  - DPM protection agent
  - VMSnapshot extension
### 2.4c: Configure and review backup reports
This section focuses on implementing data visualization from within Power BI, currently in preview.
### 2.4d: Create and configure backup policy
...
## 3: Deploy and manage virtual machines
### 3.1 Create and configure a VM for Windows and Linux
### 3.1a: Creating virtual machines
3 types of disks avialable to Virtual Machines:
  - Operating System Disk (OS Disk)
  - Temporary Disk
  - Data Disk
#### 3.1a.01:
Create an Azure VM (Portal)
...
#### 3.1a.02:
Create an Azure VM (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$subnets = @()
$subnet1Name = "Subnet1"
$subnet2Name = "Subnet2"
$subnet1AddressPrefix = "10.0.0.0/24"
$subnet2AddressPrefix = "10.0.1.0/24"
$vnetAddressSpace = "10.0.0.0/16"
$vnetName = "ExamRefVNET"
```
```powershell
# Login to Azure account
Connect-AzAccount
```
```powershell
# Create a new resource group 
New-AzResourceGroup -Name $resourceGroupName -Location $location
```
```powershell
# Create a virtual network
$subnets = @()
$subnets += New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name $subnet1Name -AddressPrefix $subnet1AddressPrefix
$subnets += New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name $subnet2Name -AddressPrefix $subnet2AddressPrefix
$vnet = New-AzVirtualNetwork -Name $vnetName -Location $location -AddressPrefix $vnetAddressSpace -Subnet $subnets
```
```powershell
# Create a public IP address
$pip = New-AzPublicIpAddress -Name $ipName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Location $location -AllocationMethod Dynamic -DomainNameLabel $dnsName
```
```powershell
# Add a rule to the network security group to allow RDP in
$nsgRules = @()
$nsgRules += New-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig -Name "RDP" -Description "RemoteDesktop" -Protocol Tcp -SourcePortRange "*" -DestinationPortRange "3389" -SourceAddressPrefix "*" -DestinationAddressPrefix "*" -Access Allow -Priority 110 -Direction Inbound
```
```powershell
# Apply the rules
$nsg = New-AzNetworkSecurityGroup -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name "ExamREfNSG" -SecurityRules $nsgRules -Location $location
```
```powershell
# Create a virtual machine configuration object with the `New-AzVMConfig` cmdlet
$vm = New-AzVMConfig -VMName $vmName -VMSize $vmSize
```
```powershell
# Specify operating system and credentials
Set-AzVMOperatingSystem -Windows -ComputerName $vmName -Credential $cred -ProvisionVMAgent -VM $vm
```
```powershell
# Specify the operating system image using `Set-AzVMSourceImage`
Set-AzVMSourceImage -PublisherName $pubName -Offer $offerName -Skus $skuName -Version "latest" -VM $vm
Set-AzVMOSDisk -CreateOption fromImage -VM $vm
```
```powershell
# Create a network interface
$nic = New-AzNetworkInterface -Name $nicNAme -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Location $location -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id -PublicIpAddressId $pip.Id -NetworkSecurityGroupId $nsg.Id
Add-AzVMNetworkInterface -VM $vm -NetworkInterface $nic
```
```powershell
# Provision the virtual machine with `New-AzVM`
New-AzVM -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Location $location -VM $vm
```
#### 3.1a.03:
Create an Azure VM (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Login to Azure account
az login
```
```bash
# Create a new resource group 
az group create --name $rgName --location $location
```
```bash
# Identify available regions
az account list-locations
```
```bash
# Create a simple virtual machine
vmName="myUbuntuVM"
imageName="UbuntuLTS"
az vm create --resource-group $rgName --name $vmName --image $imageName --generate-ssh-keys
```
```bash
# Create a virtual network
vnetName="ExamRefVNET"
vnetAddressPrefix="10.0.0.0/16"
az network vnet create --resource-group $rgName -n ExamRefVNET --address-prefixes $vnetAddressPrefix -l $location
```
```bash
# Create a public IP address
dnsRecord="examrefdns123123"
ipName="ExamRefIP"
az network public-ip create -n $ipName -g $rgName --allocation-method Dynamic --dns-name $dnsRecord -l $location
```
```bash
# Create a network security group
nsgName="webnsg"
az network nsg create -n $nsgName -g $rgName -l $location
```
```bash
# Create a network security group rule to allow SSH in
az network nsg rule create -n SSH --nsg-name ... --priority 100 -g ... --access Allow --description "SSH Access" --direction Inbound --protocol Tcp --destination-address-prefix "*" --destination-port-range 22 --source-address-prefix "*" --source-port-range "*"
```
```bash
# Create a network security group rule to allow HTTP in
az network nsg rule create -n HTTP --nsg-name ... --priority 101 -g ... --access Allow --description "Web Access" --direction Inbound --protocol Tcp --destination-address-prefix "*" --destination-port-range 80 --source-address-prefix "*" --source-port-range "* 
```
```bash
# Create a network interface
nicname="WebVMNic1"
az network nic create -n $nicname -g $rgName --subnet $Subnet1Name --network-security-group $nsgName --vnet-name $vnetName --public-ip-address $ipName -l $location
```
```bash
# Retrieve a list of marketplace images
az vm image list --all
```
```bash
# Retrieve form factors available in each region
az vm list-sizes --location ...
```
```bash
# Create the VM
imageName="Canonical:UbuntuServer:16.04-LTS:latest"
vmSize="Standard_DS1_V2"
user=demouser
vmName="WebVM"
az vm create -n $vmName -g $rgName -l $location --size $vmSize --nics $nicname --image $imageName --generate-ssh-keys
```
#### 3.1a.04:
Capture a managed VM image (Portal)
#### 3.1a.05:
Capture a managed VM image (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "Contoso"
$vmName = "ImageVM"
$location = "WestUS"
$imageName = "WinVMImage"j
```
```powershell
# Set status of VM to "Generalized"
Set-AzVM -ResourceGroupName  $rgName -Name $vmName -Generalized 
```
```powershell
# Create a managed VM from a VM
$vm = Get-AzVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $vmName
$image = New-AzImageConfig -Location $location -SourceVirtualMachineId $vm.ID 
New-AzImage -Image $image -ImageName $imageName -ResourceGroupName $rgName
```
#### 3.1a.06:
Capture a managed VM image (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Create a managed image
rgName="Contoso"
vmName="ImageVM"
imageName="LinuxImage"
```
```bash
# Deallocate the VM
az vm deallocate --resource-group $rgName --name $vmName
# Set the status of the VM to Generalized
az vm generalize --resource-group $rgName --name $vmName
# Capture managed VM image from generalized VM
az image create --resource-group $rgName --name $imageName --source $vmName 
```
#### 3.1a.07:
Create a VM from an image
#### 3.1a.34:
Specify a legacy unmanaged image for use in a new virtual machine (PowerShell)
```powershell
$osDiskUri = "https://examrefstorage.blob.core.windows.net/vhd/os-disk"
$imageUri = "https://examrefstorage.blob.core.windows.net/images/legacy-image.vhd"
$vm = Set-AzVMOSDisk -VM $vm -Name $osDiskName -VhdUri $osDiskUri -CreateOption fromImage -SourceImageUri $imageUri -Windows
```
#### 3.1a.35:
Specify a legacy unmanaged image for use in a new virtual machine (Azure CLI)
```bash
az vm create --resource-group $rgName --name $vmName --image $osDiskUri --generate-ssh-keys
```
#### 3.1a.36:
Specify a managed image for use in a new virtual machine (PowerShell)
```powershell
$image = Get-AzImage -ImageName $imageName -ResourceGroupName $rgName
$vmConfig = Set-AzVMSourceImage -VM $vmConfig -Id $image.Id
```
#### 3.1a.37:
Specify a managed image for use in a new virtual machine (Azure CLI)
```bash
az vm create -g $rgName -n $vmName --image $imageName
```
### 3.1b: Configuring high availability
**Availability zones** protect from datacenter-level failures by providing physical and logical separation between VM instances. Zones have independent power sources, network, and cooling, and there are at least 3 zones in every region.\
**Availability sets** offer redundancy for VMs in the same application tier, ensuring at least one VM is available in the case of a host update or problem. Each VM is assigned a **fault domain** (representing separate physical racks in the datacenter) and an **update domain** (representing groups of VMs and underlying physical hardware that can be rebooted at the same time for host updates). Every availability set has up to 20 update domains and 3 fault domains available.\
A VM joined to an availability zone **may not** be also joined to an **availability set**.
#### 3.1b.01:
Create an availability set (Portal)
#### 3.1b.02:
Create an availability set (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$avSetName = "WebAVSet"
$location = "West US"
```
```powershell
# Create an availability set
New-AzavailabilitySet -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $avSetName -Location $location -PlatformUpdateDomainCount 10 -PlatformFaultDomainCount 3 -Sku "Aligned"
```
#### 3.1b.03:
Create an availability set (CLI)
```bash
# Variables
rgName="ExamRefRG"
avSetName="WebAVSet"
location="WestUS"
```
```bash
# Create an availability set
az vm availability-set create --name $avSetName --resource-group $rgName --platform-fault-domain-count 3 --platform-update-domain-count 10
```
### 3.1c: Configure virtual machine size
#### 3.1c.01:
Resizing a VM (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$vmName = "Web1"
$size = "Standard_DS2_V2"
```
```powershell
# View available sizes
Get-AzVMSize -Location $location
```
```powershell
# Change VM to the new size
$vm = Get-AzVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName -VMName $vmNAme
$vm.HardwareProfile.VMSize = "Standard_DS2_V2"
Update-AzVM -VM $vm -ResourceGroupName $rgName
```
#### 3.1c.02:
Resizing a VM (Azure CLI)
```bash
az vm list-vm-resize-options --resource-group $rgName --name $vmName --output table
az vm resize --resource-group $rgName --name $vmName --size Standard_DS3_v2
```
### 3.1d: Authentication options
### 3.1e: Configure storage
#### 3.1e.01:
Modify host cache setting on a virtual HD (Portal)
#### 3.1e.02:
Modify host cache setting on a virtual HD (PowerShell)
```powershell
$vm = Get-AzVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $vmName
Set-AzVMDataDisk -VM $vm -Lun 0 -Caching ReadOnly
Update-AzVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName -VM $vm
```
#### 3.1e.03:
Modify host cache setting on a managed virtual HD (Azure CLI)
Variables
```bash
rgName="StorageRG"
vmName="StandardVM"
diskName="ManagedDisk"
```
Attach a managed disk
```bash
az vm disk attach --vm-name $vmName --resource-group $rgName --size-gb 128 --disk $diskName --caching ReadWrite -new
```
#### 3.1e.04:
Modify host cache setting on a unmanaged virtual HD (Azure CLI)
```bash
az vm unmanaged-disk attach
```
#### 3.1e.05:
Create a new storage pool using all available disks (PowerShell)
### 3.1f: Configure networking
#### 3.1f.01:
Connecting to a Windows VM with remote desktop
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$vmName = "ExamRefVM"
$Path = "C:\path\to\ExamRefVM.rdp"
```
```powershell
# Use `Launch` param to retrieve .rdp file and immediately open it with a Remote Desktop client
Get-AzRemoteDesktopFile -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $vmName -Launch
```
```powershell
# Specify `LocalPath` param to save the .rdp file for later use
Get-AzRemoteDesktopFile -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $vmName -LocalPath $path
```
#### 3.1f.02:
Connecting to a Linux virtual machine using SSH
### 3.1g: Configure monitoring
#### 3.1g.01:
Enabling and configuring diagnostics (Windows)
#### 3.1g.02:
Enabling and configuring diagnostics (Linux)
### 3.1h: Deploy and configure scale sets
**VM scale sets (VMSS)** support the ability to dynamically add and remove instances. By default, a VMSS supports up to 100 instances or up to 1000 instances if deployed with the property `singlePlacementGroup` set to false (called a **large-scale set**). A **placement group** is a concept similar to an availability set in that it assigns fualt and upgrade domains. By default, a scale set consists of only a single placement group, but disabling this setting allows the scale set to be composed of multiple placement groups. If a custom image is used instead of one in the gallery, the limit is actually 300 instances.
#### 3.1h.01:
Creating a virtual machine scale set (Portal)
#### 3.1h.02:
Creating a virtual machine scale set (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$location = "WestUS"
$vmSize = "Standard_DS2_V2"
$capacity = 2
```
```powershell
# Create a VMSS with IIS installed from a custom script extension
New-AzResourceGroup -Name $rgName -Location $location
```
```powershell
# Create a config object
$vmssConfig = New-AzVmssConfig -Location $location -SkuCapacity $capacity -SkuName $vmSize -UpgradePolicyMode Automatic
```
```powershell
# Create a public IP address
$publicIP = New-AzPublicIpAddress -ResourceGroupName $rgNAme -Location $locaiton -AllocationMethod Static -Name $publicIPName
```
```powershell
# Create a frontend and backend IP pool
$frontendIP = New-AzLoadBalancerFrontendIpConfig -Name "lbFrontEndPool" -PublicIpAddress $publicIP
$backendPool = New-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig -Name "lbBackEndPool"
```
```powershell
# Create the load balancer
$lb = New-AzLoadBalancer -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name "lbrule" -Location $location -FrontendIPConfiguration $frontendIP -BackendAddressPool $backendPool
```
```powershell
# Create a load balancer rule to distribute traffic on port 80
Add-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig -Name "lbrule" -LoadBalancer $lb -Protocol http -Port 80 -IntervalInSeconds 15 -ProbeCount 2 -RequestPath "/"
Set-AzLoadBalancer -LoadBalancer $lb
```
```powershell
# Reference a VM image from the gallery
Set-AzVmssStorageProfile $vmssConfig -ImageReferencePublisher MicrosoftWindowsServer -ImageReferenceOffer WindowsServer -ImageReferenceSku 2016-Datacenter -ImageReferenceVersion latest -OsDiskCreateOption FromImage
```
```powershell
# Set up information for authenticating with the VM
Set-AzVmssOsProfile $vmssConfig -AdminUsername "azureuser" -AdminPassword "P@ssword!" -ComputerNamePrefix "ssVM"
```
```powershell
# Create VNet resources
$subnet = New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name "web" -AddressPrefix 10.0.0.0/24
$vnet = New-AzVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $ssName -Location $location -AddressPrefix 10.0.0.0/16 -Subnet $subnet
$ipConfig = New-AzVmssIpConfig -Name "vmssIPConfig" -LoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolsId $lb.BackendAddressPools[0].Id -SubnetId $vnet.Subnets[0].Id
```
```powershell
# Attach the VNet to the config object
Add-AzVmssNetworkInterfaceConfiguration -VirtualMachineScaleSet $vmssConfig -Name "network-config" -Primary $true -IPConfiguration $ipConfig 
```
```powershell
# Create the scale set with the config object
New-AzVmss -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $scaleSetName -VirtualMachineScaleSet $vmssConfig
```
#### 3.1h.03:
Creating a virtual machine scale set (CLI)
```bash
# Variables
rgName="ExamRefRG"
ssName="erscaleset"
userName="azureuser"
password="P@ssword!"
vmPrefix="ssVM"
location="WestUS"
```
```powershell
# Create a VM Scale Set with load balancer, virtual network, and a public IP address
az group create --name $rgName --location $location
az vmss create --resource-group $rgName --name $ssName --image UbuntuLTS --authentication-type password --admin-username $userName --admin-password $password
```
### 3.2
#### 3.2c.01:
Deploy a template that creates a VM (Portal)
#### 3.2c.02:
Deploy a template that creates a VM (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$location = "WestUs"
$deploymentName = "simpleVMDeployment"
$templateUri = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/101-vm-simple-windows/azuredeploy.json"
```
```powershell
# Create a resource group
New-AzResourceGroup -Name $rgName -Location $location
# Deploy template from GitHub
New-AzResourceGroupDeployment -Name $deploymentName -ResourceGroupName $rgName -TemplateUri $templateUri
```
#### 3.2c.03:
Deploy a template that creates a VM (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Variables
rgName="ExamRefRG"
location="WestUS"
deploymentName="simpleVMDeployment"
templateUri = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/101-vm-simple-windows/azuredeploy.json"
```
```bash
# Create a resource group
az group create --name $rgNAme --location $location
```
```bash
# Deploy template from GitHub
az group deployment create --name $deploymentName --resource-group $rgName --template-uri $templateUri
```
#### 3.2d.01:
Deploy a template in Complete mode
```powershell
New-AzResourceGroupDeployment -Mode Complete -Name simpleVMDeployment -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```bash
az group deployment create --name simpleVMDeployment --mode Complete --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
#### 3.2e.01:
Export deployment template (Portal)
#### 3.2e.02:
Access template that represents current state of resource group
#### 3.2e.03:
Export templates
```powershell
Save-AzResourceGroupDeploymentTemplate -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -DeploymentName simpleVMDeployment
```
```bash
az group deployment export --name simpleVMDeployment --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
#### 3.2e.04:
Export all resources in a resource group as a template
```powershell
Export-AzResourceGroup -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```bash
az group export --name ExamRefRG
```
#### 3.2e.05:
Pass a template file during deployment
```powershell
New-AzResourceGroupDeployment -Name MyDeployment -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -TemplateFile C:\MyTemplates\AppTemplate.json
```
```bash
az group deployment create --name MyDeployment --resource-group ExamRefRG --template-file AppTemplate.json --parameters @dev-env.json
```
### 3.3
#### 3.3a.01:
Add a data disk to an existing VM (Portal)
#### 3.3a.02:
Attach a new managed disk to an existing VM
```powershell
# Variables
$dataDiskName = "MyDataDisk"
$location="WestUS"
```
```powershell
# Create the disk configuration
$diskConfig = New-AzDiskConfig -SkuName Premium_LRS -Location $location -CreateOption Empty -DiskSizeGB 128

# Create the disk
$dataDisk1 = New-AzDisk -DiskName $dataDiskName -Disk $diskConfig -ResourceGroupNAme ExamRefRG

# Retrieve the current VM
$vm = Get-AzVM -Name ExamRefVM -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG

# Attach the disk
$vm = Add-AzVMDataDisk -VM $vm -Name $dataDiskName -CreateOption Attach -ManagedDiskId $dataDisk1.Id -Lun 1

# Update the VM
Update-AzVM -VM $vm -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```bash
az vm disk attach -g ExamRefRG --vm-name ExamRefVM --name myDataDisk --new --size-gb 128 --sku Premium_LRS
``` 
#### 3.3b.01:
Add a new network interface to an existing VM
#### 3.3b.02:
Attach a new network interface to an existing VM
```powershell
# Variables
$vnetNAme = "ExamRefVNET"
$subnetName = "Subnet-1"
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$vmName = "ExamRefVM"
$nicName = "newnic"
```
```powershell
# Deallocate the VM
Stop-AzVM -Name $vmName -ResourceGroupName $rgName
```
```powershell
# Retrieve the VM configuration
$vm = Get-AzVm -Name ExamRefVM -ResourceGroupName $rgName
```
```powershell
# Get info for the backend subnet
$myVnet = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $vnetName
$backend = $myVnet.Subnets |? { $_.Name -eq $subnetName }
```
```powershell
# Create a virtual NIC
$newNic = New-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $nicName -Location $location -SubnetId $newNic.Id
```
```powershell
# Get the ID of the new virtual NIC and add to VM
$nicId = (Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $rgName -Name $nicName).Id
Add-AzVMNetworkInterface -VM $vm -Id $nicId -Primary | Update-AzVm -ResourceGroupName $rgName
```
```bash
# Variables
vnetName="ExamRefVNET"
subnetName="Subnet-1"
rgName="ExamRefRG"
vmName="ExamRefVM"
nicName="newnic"
```
```bash
az network nic create --resource-group $rgName --name $nicName --vnet-name $ExamRefVNET --subnet $subnetName
az vm nic add -g $rgName --vm-name $vmName --nics $nicName --primary-nic
```
#### 3.3c.01:
View all available sizes in a location
#### 3.3c.02:
Change VM to a new size
#### 3.3d.01:
Move a VM to another resource group or subscription (Portal)
#### 3.3d.02:
Move a resource to another resource group or subscription (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Use `Get-AzResource` to identify the resource ID value
$resourceID = Get-AzResource -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG | Format-Table -Property ResourceId
```
```powershell
# Specify the destination resource group and the resource ID to move
Move-AzResource -DestinationResourceGroupName ExamRefDestRG -ResourceId $resourceID
```
```powershell
# To move to a different subscription, use the `-DestinationSubscriptionId` param
Move-AzResource -DestinationSubscriptionId $subscriptionID -DestinationResourceGroupName ExamRefDestRG -ResourceId $resourceID
```
#### 3.3d.03:
Move a resource to another resource group or subscription (Azure CLI)
```bash
# List resource IDs
az resource list -g ExamRefRG
```
```bash
# Move to a different resource group
az resource move --destination-group ExamRefDestRG --ids $resourceID
```
```bash
# Use the `--subscription-id` parameter to move to a different subscription
az resource move --destination-group ExamrefDestRG --destination-subscription-id $subscriptionID --ids $resourceID
```
#### 3.3e.01:
Redeploy a VM
```powershell
Set-AzVM -Redeploy -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Name ExamRefVM
```
```bash
az vm redeploy --resource-group ExamRefRG --name ExamRefVM
```
### 3.3f: Automate configuration management
Azure VMs have built-in extensions that enable configuration management. 2 most common extensions for configuration management:
- Windows PowerShell **Desired State Configuration (DSC)** allows you to define the state of a VM using **PowerShell Desired State Configuration language** 
#### 3.3f.01:
Package a DSC script into a zip file
```powershell
Publish-AzVMDscConfiguration -ConfigurationPath .\ContosoWeb.ps1 -OutputArchivePath .\ContosoWeb.zip
```
#### 3.3f.02:
Apply the PowerShell Desired State Configuration extension
#### 3.3f.03:
Publish a packaged DSC script to a storage account
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$location =- "WestUS"
$vmName = "ExamRefVM"
$storageName = "dscstorageer1"
$configurationName = "Main"
$archiveBlob = "ContosoWeb.ps1.zip"
$configurationPath = ".\ContosoWeb.ps1"
```
```powershell
# Publish the configuration script into Azure storage
Publish-AzVMDscConfiguration -ConfigurationPath $configurationPath -ResourceGroupName $rgName -StorageAccountName $storageName
```
```powershell
# Set the VM to run the DSC configuration
Set-AzVmDscExtension -Version 2.76 -ResourceGroupName $rgName -VMName $vmName -ArchiveStorageAccountNAme $storageName -ArchiveBlobName $archiveBNlob -AutoUpdate:$false -ConfigurationName $configurationName
```
#### 3.3f.04:
Use the custom script extension
```powershell
# Deploy the Active Directory Domain Services role
Install-WindowsFeature -Name "AD-Domain-Services" -IncludeManagementTools -IncludeAllSubFeature
Install-ADDSForest -DomainName $domain -DomainMode Win2012 -ForestMode Win2012 -Force -SafeModeAdministratorPassword $smPassword
```
```powershell
# Use `Set-AzVMCustomScriptExtension` to run script on a VM
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$vmName = "ExamRefVM"
$scriptName = "deploy-ad.ps1"
$domain = "contoso.com"
$extensionName = "installAD"
$location = "WestUS"
$scriptUri = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opsgility/lab-support-public/master/script-extensions/deploy-ad.ps1" 
$scriptArgument = "contoso.com $password"
Set-AzVMCustomScriptExtension -ResourceGroupName $rgName -VMName $vmName -FileUri $scriptUri -Argument "$domain $password" -Run $scriptName -Name $extensionName -Location $location
```
```bash
rgName="ExamRefRG"
vmName="LinuxVM"
extensionName="InstallApache"
az vm extension set --resource-group $rgName --vm-name $vmName --name customScript --publisher Microsoft.Azure.Extensions --protected-settings ./cseconfig.json
```
### 3.4
#### 3.4a.01:
Backup a VM with Azure Backup
#### 3.4d.01:
Restore an Azure Backup recovery point as a new VM
#### 3.4d.02:
Restore access to files in Azure Backup
### 3.4a: Manage VM Backups
### 3.4d: Perform VM restore
2 methods to restore data after backing up a VM to Azure Backup:
  1. Restore a recovery point as a new VM
  2. Restore access to files only
## 4: Configure and manage virtual networks
### 4.1
Azure uses **Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)** notation when describing subnets.
### 4.1d: Configure network routes
#### 4.1d.01:
Configure user-defined routes (Portal)
First, create the route table resource, then add routes 
#### 4.1d.02:
Configure user-defined routes (PowerShell)
Create the route table resource
```powershell
$rt = New-AzRouteTable -Name RouteTable1 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
Add a route to route table
```powershell
Add-AzRouteConfig -RouteTable $rt -Name Route1 -AddressPrefix 10.3.0.0/16 -NextHopType VirtualAppliance -NextHopIpAddress 10.2.20.4
Set-AzRouteTable -RouteTable $rt
```
Find the VNet and subnet
```powershell
$vnet = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -Name VNet1 -ResourceGroupNAme ExamRefRG 
$subnet = $vnet.Subnets | where {$_.Name -eq "Default"}
```
Update the subnet to specify the route table
```powershell
Set-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -VirtualNetwork $vnet -Name Default -AddressPrefix $subnet.AddressPrefix -RouteTable $rt
```
Commit the VNet back to Azure
```powershell
Set-AzVirtualNetwork -VirtualNetwork $vnet
```
Get effective routes for a NIC
```powershell
Get-AzEffectiveRouteTable -NetworkInterfaceName VNet1-VM -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 4.1d.03:
Configure user-defined routes (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Create route table
az network route-table create --name RouteTable1 --resource-group ExamRefRG 
```
```bash
# Add route to route table
az network route-table route create --name Route1 --route-table-name RouteTable1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --address-prefix 10.3.0.0/16 --next-hop-type VirtualAppliance --next-hop-ip-address 10.2.20.4
```
```bash
# Associate route table with subnet
az network vnet subnet update --name defualt --vnet-name Vnet1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --route-table RouteTable1
```
```bash
# Get effective routes for NIC
az network nic show-effective-route-table --name VM1-NIC --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
### 4.2
### 4.2a
#### 4.2a.01:
Creating a VNet peering (Portal)
#### 4.2a.02:
Creating a VNet peering (PowerShell)
```powershell
$vnet1 = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Name VNet1
$vnet2 = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Name VNet2
```
```powershell
# Peer Vnet1 to VNet2 (and vice versa)
Add-AzVirtualNetworkPeering -Name 'VNet2-to-VNet1' -VirtualNetwork $vnet2 -RemoteVirtualNetworkId $vnet1.Id
Add-AzVirtualNetworkPeering -Name 'VNet1-to-VNet2' -VirtualNetwork $vnet1 -RemoteVirtualNetworkId $vnet2.Id
```
```powershell
# Check the peering status
Get-AzVirtualNetworkPeering -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -VirtualNetworkName VNet1 |
Format-Table VirtualNetworkName, PeeringState
```
#### 4.2a.03:
Creating a VNet peering (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Peer VNet1 to VNet2
az network vnet peering create --name VNet1-to-VNet2 --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-name VNet1 --allow-vnet-access --remote-vnet VNet2
```
```bash
# Peer VNet2 to VNet1
az network vnet peering create --name VNet2-to-VNet1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-name VNet2 --allow-vnet-access --remote-vnet VNet1
```
```bash
# Check the peering status
az network vnet peering list --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-name VNet1 -o table
az network vnet peering list --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-name VNet2 -o table
```
### 4.2b
#### 4.2b.01:
Creating a VPN gateway and VNet-to-VNet connection (Portal)
#### 4.2b.02:
Creating a VPN gateway and VNet-to-VNet connection (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Create gateway subnets in VNet2 and VNet3
$vnet2 = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -Name VNet2 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
$vnet2.Subnets += New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name GatewaySubnet -AddressPrefix 10.2.1.0/27
$vnet2 = Set-AzVirtualNetwork -VirtualNetwork $vnet2
$vnet3 = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -Name VNet3 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
$vnet3.Subnets += New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name GatewaySubnet -AddressPrefix 10.3.1.0/27
$vnet3 = Set-AzVirtualNetwork -VirtualNetwork $vnet3
```
```powershell
# Create VPN gateway in VNet2
$gwpip2 = New-AzPublicIpAddress -Name VNet2-GW-IP -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location $vnet2.Location -AllocationMethod Dynamic
$gwsubnet2 = Get-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name 'GatewaySubnet' -VirtualNetwork $vnet2
$gwipconf2 = New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayIpConfig -Name GwIPConf2 -Subnet $gwsubnet2 -PublicIpAddress $gwpip2
$vnet2gw = New-AzVirtualNetworkGateway -Name VNet2-GW -ResourceGroupNAme ExamRefR -Location $vnet2.Location -IpConfigurations $gwipconf2 -GatewayType Vpn -VpnType RouteBased -GatewaySku VpnGw1
```
```powershell
# Create VPN gateway in VNet3
$gwpip3 = New-AzPublicIpAddress -Name VNet3-GW-IP -ResourceGroupName ExamRefR -Location $vnet3.Location -AllocationMethod Dynamic
$gwsubnet3 = Get-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name 'GatewaySubnet' -VirtualNetwork $vnet3
$gwipconf3 = New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayIpConfig -Name GwIPConf3 -Subnet $gwsubnet3 -PublicIpAddress $gwpip3
$vnet3gw = New-AzVirtualNetworkGateway -Name VNet3-GW -ResourceGroupNAme ExamRefRG -Location $vnet3.Location -IpConfigurations $gwipconf3 -GatewayType Vpn -VpnType RouteBased -GatewaySku VpnGw1
```
```powershell
# Create connections
New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection -Name VNet2-to-VNet3 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location $vnet2.Location -VirtualNetworkGateway1 $vnet2gw -VirtualNetworkGateway2 $vnet3gw -ConnectionType VNet2VNet -SharedKey "secretkey123"
New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection -Name VNet3-to-VNet2 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location $vnet3.Location -VirtualNetworkGateway1 $vnet3gw -VirtualNetworkGateway2 $vnet2gw -ConnectionType VNet2VNet -SharedKey "secretkey123"
```
#### 4.2b.03:
Creating a VPN gateway and VNet-to-VNet connection
```bash
# Create gateway subnets in VNet2 and VNet3
az network vnet subnet create --name GatewaySubnet --vnet-name VNet2 --resource-group ExamRefRG --address-prefixes 10.2.1.0/27
az network vnet subnet create --name GatewaySubnet --vnet-name VNet3 --resource-group ExamRefRG --address-prefixes 10.3.1.0/27
```
```bash
# Create public IP addresses for use by VPN gateways
az network public-ip create --name VNet2-GW-IP --resource-group ExamRefRG --location NorthEurope
az network public-ip create --name VNet3-GW-IP --resource-group ExamRefRG --location WestEurope
```
```bash
# Create VPN gateways in VNet2 and VNet 3
az network vnet-gateway create --name VNet2-GW --resource-group ExamRefRG --gateway-type vpn --sku VpnGw1 --vpn-type RouteBased --vnet VNet2 --public-ip-addresses VNet2-GW-IP --location NorthEurope
az network vnet-gateway create --name VNet3-GW --resource-group ExamRefRG --gateway-type vpn --sku VpnGw1 --vpn-type RouteBased --vnet VNet3 --public-ip-addresses VNet3-GW-IP --location WestEurope
```
```bash
# :Create connections between VPN gateways
az network vpn-connection create --name VNet2-to-VNet3 --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-gateway1 VNet2-GW --vnet-gateway2 VNet3-GW --shared-key secretkey123 --location NorthEurope
az network vpn-connection create --name VNet3-to-VNet2 --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-gateway1 VNet3-GW --vnet-gateway2 VNet2-GW --shared-key secretkey123 --location WestEurope
```
### 4.3
#### 4.3a.01:
Creating DNS zones and DNS records (Portal)
#### 4.3a.02:
Creating DNS zones and DNS records (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Create a DNS zone
New-AzDnsZone -Name examref.com -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```powershell
# Create a record set containing a single record
New-AzDnsRecordSet -Name www -RecordType A -ZoneName examref.com -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Ttl 3600 -DnsRecords (New-AzDnsRecordConfig -IPv4Address "1.2.3.4")
```
```powershell
# Create a record set at the zone apex containing multiple records
$records = @()
$records += New-AzDnsRecordConfig -IPv4Address "1.2.3.4"
$records += New-AzDnsRecordConfig -IPv4Address "5.6.7.8"
New-AzDnsRecordSet -Name "@" -RecordType A -ZoneName examref.com -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Ttl 3600 -DnsRecords $records
```
```powershell
# Add a new record to and remove an existing record from an existing record set
$recordset = Get-AzDnsRecordSet -Name www -RecordType A -ZoneName examref.com -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
Add-AzdnsRecordConfig -RecordSet $recordset -IPv4Address "5.6.7.8"
Remove-AzDnsRecordConfig -RecordSet $recordset -IPv4Address "1.2.3.4"
Set-AzDnsRecordSet -RecordSet $recordset
```
```powershell
# View records
Get-AzDnsRecordSet -ZoneName examref.com -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 4.3a.03:
Creating DNS zones and DNS records (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Create a DNS zone
az network dns zone create --name examref.com --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
```bash
# Create an empty record set of type A
az network dns record-set a create --name www --zone-name examref.com --resource-group ExamRefRG --ttl 3600
```
```bash
# Add A records to the above record set
az network dns record-set a add-record --record-set-name www --zone-name examref.com --resource-group ExamRefRG --ipv4-address 1.2.3.4
az network dns record-set a add-record --record-set-name www --zone-name examref.com --resource-group ExamRefRG --ipv4-address 5.6.7.8
```
```bash
# Remove an A record from the record set
az network dns record-set a remove-record --record-set-name www --zone-name examref.com --resource-group ExamRefRG --ipv4-address 1.2.3.4
```
```bash
# View records
az network dns record-set list --zone-name examref.com --resource-group ExamRefRG -o table 
```
#### 4.3b.01:
Configure custom DNS settings (Portal)
#### 4.3b.02:
Configure custom DNS settings (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Create a virtual network with custom DNS settings
New-AzVirtualNetwork -Name VNet1 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location "North Europe" -AddressPrefix 10.1.0.0/16 -DNSServer 10.0.0.4,10.0.0.5 -Subnet (New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name Default -AddressPrefix 10.1.0.0/24)
```
```powershell
# Modify the DNS server configuration of an existing VNET
$vnet = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -Name VNet1 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
$vnet.DhcpOptions.DnsServers.Clear()
$vnet.DhcpOptions.DnsServers.Add("10.10.200.1")
$vnet.DhcpOptions.DnsServers.Add("10.10.200.2")
Set-AzVirtualNetwork -VirtualNetwork $vnet
```
```powershell
# Restart the VMs in the VNet to pick up the DNS change
$vm = Get-AzVM -Name VNet1-VM -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
Restart-AzVM -ID $vm.Id
```
```powershell
# Update the DNS settings on a NIC
$nic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -Name VM1-NIC -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
$nic.DnsSettings.DnsServers.Clear()
$nic.DnsSettings.DnsServers.Add("8.8.8.8")
$nic.DnsSettings.DnsServers.Add("8.8.4.4")
```
```powershell
# Commit the DNS change, causing the VM to restart
Set-AzNetworkInterface -NetworkInterface $nic
```
#### 4.3b.03:
Configure custom DNS settings (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Create a virtual network with custom DNS settings
az network vnet create --name VNet1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --address-prefixes 10.0.0.0/16 --dns-servers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```
```bash
# Set custom DNS servers on a VNet
az network vnet update --name VNet1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --dns-servers 10.0.0.254
```
```bash
# Remove custom DNS servers from a VNET
az network vnet update --name VNet1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --remove DHCPOptions.DNSServers
```
```bash
# Set custom DNS servers on a NIC
az network nic update --name VM1-NIC --resource-group ExamRefRG --dns-servers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```
#### 4.3c.01:
Create private DNS zones
### 4.4
### 4.4a
#### 4.4a.01
Create an NSG using the Azure Portal\
1. Create a resource
2. Networking
3. Network Security Group
4. 
### 4.4c
#### 4.4c.01:
Implement Service Map (Portal)
#### 4.4c.02:
Install Dependency Agent
#### 4.4c.03:
Register a resource provider (PowerShell)
```powershell
Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Insights
```
#### 4.4c.04:
Register a resource provider (Azure CLI)
```bash
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.Insights
```
### 4.4d
#### 4.4d.01:
View effective security rules (Portal)
#### 4.4d.02:
View effective security rules for a network interface (PowerShell)
```powershell
Get-AzEffectiveNetworkSecurityGroup -NetworkInterfaceName examref-vm1638 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
#### 4.4d.03:
View effective security rules for a network interface (Azure CLI)
```bash
az network nic list-effective-nsg --name examref-vm1638 --resource-group ExamRefRG
```
### 4.5
#### 4.5a.01:
Create an Azure load balancer (Portal)
#### 4.5a.02:
Create an Azure load balancer (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
$location = "West Europe"
```
```powershell
# Create Public IP
$publicIP = New-AzPublicIpAddress -Name ExamRefLB-IP -ResourceGroupName $rgNAme -Location $location -AllocationMethod Static 
```
```powershell
# Create frontend IP configuration
$frontendIP = New-AzLoadBalancerFrontendIpConfig -Name ExamRefFrontEnd -PublicIpAddress $publicIP
```
```powershell
# Create backend pool
$beAddressPool = New-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig -Name ExamRefBackEndPool
```
```powershell
# Create HTTP Probe
$healthProbe = New-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig -Name -RequestPath '/' -Protocol http -Port 80
```
```powershell
# Create load balancer rule
$lbrule = New-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig -Name -FrontendIpConfiguration $frontendIP -BackendAddressPool $beAddressPool -Probe $healthProbe -Protocol Tcp -FrontendPort 80 -BackendPort 80
```
```powershell
# Create load balancer
$lb = New-AzLoadBalancer -ResourceGroupName -Name -Location -FrontendIpConfiguration $frontendIP -LoadBalancingRule $lbrule -BackendAddressPool $beAddressPool -Probe $healthProbe
```
#### 4.5a.03:
Create an Azure load balancer (Azure CLI)
```bash
#Create Public IP
az network public-ip create --name ExamRefLB-IP --resource-group ExamRefRG --location --allocation-method Static
```
```bash
# Create load balancer
az network lb create --name ExamRefLB --resource-group ExamRefRG --location --backend-pool-name ExamRefBackEndPool --frontend-ip-name ExamRefFrontEnd --public-ip-address ExamRefLB-IP
```
```bash
# Create HTTP Probe
az network lb probe create --resource-group ExamRefRG --name HealthProbe --lb-name ExamRefLB --protocol http --port 80 --path / --interval 5 --threshold 
```
```bash
# Create load balancer rule
az network lb rule create --name ExamRefRule --lb-name ExamRefLB --resource-group ExamRefRG --protocol Tcp --frontend-port 80 --backend-port 80 --frontend-ip-name ExamRefFrontEnd --backend-pool-name ExamRefBackEndPool --probe-name HealthProbe
```
#### 4.5a.04:
Add VMs to the backend pool of a load balancer (PowerShell)
The process in PowerShell is actually to add a reference to the backend pool to the NIC of each VM.
```powershell
# Variables
$rgName = "ExamRefRG"
```
```powershell
# Get the NIC based on VM ID
$vml = Get-AzVM -Name VM1 -ResourceGroupName $rgName
$vmlnic = Get-AzNetworkInterface -ResourceGroupName $rgName | where {$_.VirtualMachine.Id -eq $vml.Id}
```
```powershell
# Get the load balancer and backend pool
$lb = Get-AzLoadBalancer -Name ExamRefLB -ResourceGroupName $rgName
$beAddressPool = Get-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig -Name ExamRefBackEndPool -LoadBalancer $lb
```
```powershell
# All IP configuration settings of the NIC have to be reapplied, there is no support for incremental changes
$ipconfig = Get-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig -Name ipconfig1 -NetworkInterface vm1nic
Set-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig -Name ipconfig1 -NetworkInterface $vm1nic -SubnetId $ipconfig.Subnet.Id -LoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolId $beAddressPool.Id
```
```powershell
# Commit the change
Set-AzNetworkInterface -NetworkInterface $vm1nic
```
#### 4.5a.05:
Add VMs to the backend pool of a load balancer (Azure CLI)
Azure CLI supports incremental update of the NIC, which makes this command simpler than its PowerShell equivalent.
```bash
az network nic ip-config address-pool add --resource-group ExamRefRG --address-pool ExamRefBackEndPool --lb-name ExamRefLB --nic-name vm1-nic --ip-config-name ipconfig1
```
#### 4.5b.01:
Enable basic-tier load-balancer logs
### 4.6
### 4.6a: Monitor on-premises connectivity
3 services provided by NPM:
  - Performance Monitor
  - Service Connectivity Monitor
  - ExpressRoute
#### 4.6a.01:
Install Network Performance Monitor (Portal)
#### 4.6a.02:
Install Network Performance Monitor on a VM (Portal)
#### 4.6a.03:
Connect on-premises server to Log Analytics
#### 4.6a.04:
Configure Performance Monitor
#### 4.6a.05:
Configure Service Connectivity Monitor
#### 4.6a.06:
Configure ExpressRoute Monitor
### 4.6c: Use Network Watcher
Network Watcher monitoring and diagnostic tools:
  - IP Flow Verify
  - Next Hop
  - Packet Capture
  - Network Topology
#### 4.6c.01:
Install Network Watcher VM extension (PowerShell)
```powershell
Set-AzVMExtension ` -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location "West Europe" -VMName VM1 -Name networkWatcherAgent -Publisher Microsoft.Azure.NetworkWatcher -Type NetworkWatcherAgentWindows -TypeHandlerVersion 1.4
```
#### 4.6c.02:
Install Network Watcher VM extension (Azure CLI)
```bash
az vm extension set --vm-name VM1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --publisher Microsoft.Azure.NetworkWatcher --version 1.4 --name NetworkWatcherAgentWindows --extension-instance-name NetworkWatcherAgent
```
#### 4.6c.03:
Use IP Flow Verify (Portal)
#### 4.6c.04:
Use IP Flow Verify (PowerShell)
```powershell
Test-AzNetworkWatcherIPFlow
```
#### 4.6c.05:
Use IP Flow Verify (Azure CLI)
```bash
az network watcher test-ip-flow
```
#### 4.6c.06:
Use Next Hop (Portal)
#### 4.6c.07:
Use Next Hop (PowerShell)
```powershell
Get-AzNetworkWatcherNextHop
```
#### 4.6c.08:
Use Next Hop (Azure CLI)
```bash
az network watcher show-next-hop
```
#### 4.6c.09:
Use Packet Capture (Portal)
#### 4.6c.10:
Use Packet Capture (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Get the Network Watcher resource
$nw = Get-AzResource | Where ResourceType -eq "Microsoft.Network/networkWatchers" -and Location -eq "WestEurope"
$networkWatcher = Get-AzNetworkWatcher -Name $nw.Name -ResourceGroupName $nw.ResourceGroupName
```
```powershell
# Get the storage account to store the capture in
$storageAccount = Get-AzStorageAccount -Name examref-storage -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```powershell
# Set up filters
$filter1 = New-AzPacketCaptureFilterConfig -Protocol TCP -RemoteIPAddress "1.1.1.1-255.255.255.255" -LocalIPAddress "10.0.0.3" -LocalPort "1-65535" -RemotePort "20;80;443"
$filter2 = New-AzPacketCaptureFilterConfig -Protocol UDP
```
```powershell
# Get the VM
$vm = Get-AzVM ` -Name VM1 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```powershell
# Start the packet capture
New-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture -NetworkWatcher $networkWatcher -TargetVirtualMachineId $vm.Id -PacketCaptureName "PacketCaptureTest" -StorageAccountId $storageAccount.id -TimeLimitInSeconds 60 -Filter $filter1, $filter2
```
```powershell
# Check packet capture status
Get-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture -NetworkWatcher $networkWatcher -PacketCaptureName "PacketCaptureTest"
```
```powershell
# Stop packet capture
Stop-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture -NetworkWatcher $networkWatcher -PacketCaptureName "PacketCaptureTest"
```
#### 4.6c.11:
Use Packet Capture (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Start packet capture
az network watcher packet-capture create --name PacketCaptureTest2 --resource-group ExamRefRG --vm VM1 --time-limit 300 --storage-account examref-storage `
  --filters '[ { 
    "protocol": "TCP", 
    "remoteIPAddress": "1.1.1.1-255.255.255.255",
    "localIPAddress":"10.0.0.3", 
    "remotePort":"20" } ]'
```
```bash
# Get packet capture status
az network watcher packet-capture show-status --name PacketCaptureTest --location WestEurope
```
```bash
# Stop packet capture
az network watcher packet-capture stop --name PacketCaptureTest --location WestEurope
```
#### 4.6c.12:
Use Network Topology (Portal)
#### 4.6c.13:
Use Network Topology (PowerShell)
```powershell
Get-AzNetworkWatcherTopology
```
#### 4.6c.14:
Use Network Topology (Azure CLI)
```bash
az network watcher show-topology
```
#### 4.6d.01:
Use VPN Troubleshoot (Portal)
#### 4.6d.02:
Use VPN Troubleshoot (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Get the Network Watcher resource
$nw = Get-AzResource | Where ResourceType -eq Microsoft.Network/networkWatchers -and Location -eq WestEurope
$networkWatcher = Get-AzNetworkWatcher -Name $nw.Name -ResourceGroupName $nw.ResourceGroupName
```
```powershell
# Create a storage account and container for logs
$sa = New-AzStorageAccount -Name examrefstorage -SKU Standard_LRS -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location WestEurope
Set-AzCurrentStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $sa.ResourceGroupName -Name $sa.StorageAccountName
$sc = New-AzureStorageContainer -Name logs
```
```powershell
# Get the connection to troubleshoot
$connection = Get-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection -Name Vnet1-to-Vnet2 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```powershell
# Start VPN Troubleshoot
Start-AzNetworkWatcherResourceTroubleshooting -NetworkWatcher $networkWatcher -TargetResourceId $connection.Id -StorageId $sa.Id -StoragePath "$($sa.PrimaryEndpoints.Blob)$($sc.name)"
```
#### 4.6d.03:
Use VPN Troubleshoot (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Crate a storage account and container for logs
az storage account create --name examrefstorage --location westeurope --resource-group ExamRefRG --sku Standard_LRS
az storage account keys list --resource-group ExamRefRG --account-name examrefstorage
az storage container create --account-name examrefstorage --account-key {storageAccountKey} --name logs
```
```bash
# Start VPN Troubleshoot
az network watcher troubleshooting start --resource-group ExamRefRG --resource Vnet1-to-Vnet2 --resource-type vpnConnection --storage-account examrefstorage --storage-path https://examrefstorage.blob.core.windows.net/logs --output json
```
#### 4.6e.01:
Use Connection Troubleshoot (Portal)
#### 4.6e.02:
Use Connection Troubleshoot (PowerShell)
#### 4.6e.03:
Use Connection Troubleshoot (Azure CLI)
#### 4.6e.04:
Use Connection Monitor (Portal)
### 4.7
#### 4.7a.01
Create a VPN Gateway (Portal)
#### 4.7a.02
Create a VPN Gateway (PowerShell)
```powershell
$rg = ExamRefRG
```
```powershell
# Create gateway subnet in VNet1
# Gateway subnets are normal subnets with the name "GatewaySubnet"
$vnet1 = Get-AzVirtualNetwork -Name VNet1 -ResourceGroupName $rg
$vnet1.Subnets += New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name GatewaySubnet -AddressPrefix 10.1.1.0/27
$vnet1 = Set-AzVirtualNetwork -VirtualNetwork $vnet1
```
```powershell
# Create VPN gateway in VNet1
$gwpip = New-AzPublicIpAddress -Name VNet1-GW-IP -ResourceGroupName $rg -Location 'North Europe' -AllocationMethod Dynamic
$gwsubnet = Get-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name 'GatewaySubnet' -VirtualNetwork $vnet1
$gwipconf = New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayIpConfig -Name GwIPConf -Subnet $gwsubnet -PublicIpAddress $gwpip
$vnet1gw = New-AzVirtualNetworkGateway -Name VNet1-GW -ResourceGroupName $rg -Location 'North Europe' -IpConfigurations $gwipconf -GatewayType Vpn -VpnType RouteBased -GatewaySku VpnGw1
```
#### 4.7a.03
Create a VPN Gateway (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Create gateway subnets in VNet2 and VNet3
az network vnet subnet create --name GatewaySubnet --vnet-name VNet1 --resource-group ExamRefRG --address-prefixes 10.1.1.0/27
```
```bash
# Create public IP addresses for use by VPN gateway
az network public-ip create --name VNet1-GW-IP --resource-group ExamRefRG --location NorthEurope
```
```bash
# Create VPN gateway in VNet1
az network vnet-gateway create --name VNet1-GW --resource-group ExamRefRG --gateway-type vpn --sku VpnGw1 --vpn-type RouteBased --vnet VNet1 --public-ip-addresses VNet1-GW-IP --location NorthEurope
```
#### 4.7b.01
Create a site-to-site VPN (Portal)
#### 4.7b.02
Create a site-to-site VPN (PowerShell)
```powershell
# Create local network gateway
$localnw = New-AzLocalNetworkGateway -Name LocalNetGW -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location "West Europe" -GatewayIpAddress "53.50.123.195" -AddressPrefix "10.5.0.0/16" 
```
```powershell
# Get VPN gateway
$gateway = Get-AzVirtualNetworkGateway -Name VPNGW1 -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG
```
```powershell
# Create the connection
$conn = New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection -Name OnPremConnection -ResourceGroupName ExamRefRG -Location 'West Europe' -VirtualNetworkGateway1 $gateway -LocalNetworkGateway2 $localnw -ConnectionType IPsec -SharedKey "abc123"
```
#### 4.7b.03
Create a site-to-site VPN (Azure CLI)
```bash
# Create Local Network Gateway
az network local-gateway create --gateway-ip-address 53.50.123.195 --name LocalNetGW --resource-group ExamRefRG --local-address-prefixes 10.5.0.0/16
```
```bash
# Create VPN connection
az network vpn-connection create --name OnPremConnection --resource-group ExamRefRG --vnet-gateway1 VPNGW1 --location WestEurope --shared-key abc123 --local-gateway2 LocalNetGW
```
#### 4.7c.01
Creating an ExpressRoute circuit
##   5: Manage identities

# Commands

Azure PowerShell commands
:---:
[Add-AzKeyVaultKey](#add-azkeyvaultkey) [Add-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig](#add-azloadbalancerprobeconfig) [Add-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig](#add-azloadbalancerruleconfig) [Add-AzRouteConfig](#add-azrouteconfig) [Add-AzVirtualNetworkPeering](#add-azvirtualnetworkpeering) [Add-AzVMDataDisk](#add-azvmdatadisk) [Add-AzVMNetworkInterface](#add-azvmnetworkinterface) [Add-AzVmssExtension](#add-azvmssextension) [Add-AzVmssNetworkInterfaceConfiguration](#add-azvmssnetworkinterfaceconfiguration) [Connect-AzAccount](#connect-azaccount) [Export-AzResourceGroup](#export-azresourcegroup) [Get-AzADGroup](#get-azadgroup) [Get-AzEffectiveNetworkSecurityGroup](#get-azeffectivenetworksecuritygroup) [Get-AzEffectiveRouteTable](#get-azeffectiveroutetable) [Get-AzImage](#get-azimage) [Get-AzLoadBalancer](#get-azloadbalancer) [Get-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig](#get-azloadbalancerbackendaddresspoolconfig) [Get-AzNetworkInterface](#get-aznetworkinterface) [Get-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig](#get-aznetworkinterfaceipconfig) [Get-AzNetworkWatcher](#get-aznetworkwatcher) [Get-AzNetworkWatcherNextHop](#get-aznetworkwatchernexthop) [Get-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture](#get-aznetworkwatcherpacketcapture) [Get-AzNetworkWatcherTopology](#get-aznetworkwatchertopology) [Get-AzOperationalInsightsWorkspace](#get-azoperationalinsightsworkspace) [Get-AzProviderOperation](#get-azprovideroperation) [Get-AzRemoteDesktopFile](#get-azremotedesktopfile) [Get-AzResource](#get-azresource) [Get-AzResourceGroup](#get-azresourcegroup) [Get-AzRoleDefinition](#get-azroledefinition) [Get-AzServiceBusRule](#get-azservicebusrule) [Get-AzStorageAccount](#get-azstorageaccount) [Get-AzStorageAccountKey](#get-azstorageaccountkey) [Get-AzStorageBlobCopyState](#get-azstorageblobcopystate) [Get-AzStorageUsage](#get-azstorageusage) [Get-AzVirtualNetwork](#get-azvirtualnetwork) [Get-AzVirtualNetworkGateway](#get-azvirtualnetworkgateway) [Get-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection](#get-azvirtualnetworkgatewayconnection) [Get-AzVirtualNetworkPeering](#get-azvirtualnetworkpeering) [Get-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig](#get-azvirtualnetworksubnetconfig) [Get-AzVM](#get-azvm) [Get-AzVMSize](#get-azvmsize) [Get-AzVMUsage](#get-azvmusage) [Move-AzResource](#move-azresource) [New-AzAvailabilitySet](#new-azavailabilityset) [New-AzDiskConfig](#new-azdiskconfig) [New-AzImage](#new-azimage) [New-AzImageConfig](#new-azimageconfig) [New-AzKeyVault](#new-azkeyvault) [New-AzLoadBalancer](#new-azloadbalancer) [New-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig](#new-azloadbalancerbackendaddresspoolconfig) [New-AzLoadBalancerFrontendIpConfig](#new-azloadbalancerfrontendipconfig) [New-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig](#new-azloadbalancerprobeconfig) [New-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig](#new-azloadbalancerruleconfig) [New-AzLocalNetworkGateway](#new-azlocalnetworkgateway) [New-AzNetworkInterface](#new-aznetworkinterface) [New-AzNetworkSecurityGroup](#new-aznetworksecuritygroup) [New-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig](#new-aznetworksecurityruleconfig) [New-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture](#new-aznetworkwatcherpacketcapture) [New-AzPacketCaptureFilterConfig](#new-azpacketcapturefilterconfig) [New-AzPublicIpAddress](#new-azpublicipaddress) [New-AzResourceGroup](#new-azresourcegroup) [New-AzResourceGroupDeployment](#new-azresourcegroupdeployment) [New-AzRoleAssignment](#new-azroleassignment) [New-AzRouteTable](#new-azroutetable) [New-AzStorageAccount](#new-azstorageaccount) [New-AzStorageBlobSASToken](#new-azstorageblobsastoken) [New-AzStorageContainer](#new-azstoragecontainer) [New-AzStorageContext](#new-azstoragecontext) [New-AzStorageShare](#new-azstorageshare) [New-AzVirtualNetwork](#new-azvirtualnetwork) [New-AzVirtualNetworkGateway](#new-azvirtualnetworkgateway) [New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection](#new-azvirtualnetworkgatewayconnection) [New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayIpConfig](#new-azvirtualnetworkgatewayipconfig) [New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig](#new-azvirtualnetworksubnetconfig) [New-AzVMConfig](#new-azvmconfig) [New-AzVmss](#new-azvmss) [New-AzVmssIpConfig](#new-azvmssipconfig) [Publish-AzVMDscConfiguration](#publish-azvmdscconfiguration) [Register-AzResourceProvider](#register-azresourceprovider) [Remove-AzResourceGroup](#remove-azresourcegroup) [Remove-AzRoleAssignment](#remove-azroleassignment) [Restart-AzVM](#restart-azvm) [Save-AzResourceGroupDeploymentTemplate](#save-azresourcegroupdeploymenttemplate) [Set-AzCurrentStorageAccount](#set-azcurrentstorageaccount) [Set-AzKeyVaultSecret](#set-azkeyvaultsecret) [Set-AzLoadBalancer](#set-azloadbalancer) [Set-AzNetworkInterface](#set-aznetworkinterface) [Set-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig](#set-aznetworkinterfaceipconfig) [Set-AzResourceGroup](#set-azresourcegroup) [Set-AzRouteTable](#set-azroutetable) [Set-AzStorageAccount](#set-azstorageaccount) [Set-AzStorageBlobContent](#set-azstorageblobcontent) [Set-AzVirtualNetwork](#set-azvirtualnetwork) [Set-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig](#set-azvirtualnetworksubnetconfig) [Set-AzVM](#set-azvm) [Set-AzVMCustomScriptExtension](#set-azvmcustomscriptextension) [Set-AzVMDataDisk](#set-azvmdatadisk) [Set-AzVMDscExtension](#set-azvmdscextension) [Set-AzVMExtension](#set-azvmextension) [Set-AzVMOperatingSystem](#set-azvmoperatingsystem) [Set-AzVMOSDisk](#set-azvmosdisk) [Set-AzVMSourceImage](#set-azvmsourceimage) [Set-AzVmssOsProfile](#set-azvmssosprofile) [Set-AzVmssStorageProfile](#set-azvmssstorageprofile) [Start-AzNetworkWatcherResourceTroubleshooting](#start-aznetworkwatcherresourcetroubleshooting) [Start-AzStorageBlobCopy](#start-azstorageblobcopy) [Stop-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture](#stop-aznetworkwatcherpacketcapture) [Stop-AzVM](#stop-azvm) [Test-AzNetworkWatcherConnectivity](#test-aznetworkwatcherconnectivity) [Test-AzNetworkWatcherIPFlow](#test-aznetworkwatcheripflow) [Update-AzVM](#update-azvm)

Azure CLI commands
:---
[**az account**](#az-account) [list-locations](#az-account-list-locations) 
[**az ad**](#az-ad) [group list](#az-ad-group-list) 
[**az backup**](#az-backup) [vault create](#az-backup-vault-create) 
[**az group**](#az-group) [create](#az-group-create) [delete](#az-group-delete) [deployment create](#az-group-deployment-create) [deployment export](#az-group-deployment-export) [export](#az-group-export) 
[**az image**](#az-image) [create](#az-image-create) 
[**az keyvault**](#az-keyvault) [create](#az-keyvault-create) [key create](#az-keyvault-key-create) [secret set](#az-keyvault-secret-set) 
[**az login**](#az-login) 
[**az monitor**](#az-monitor) [diagnostic-settings create](#az-monitor-diagnostic-settings-create)
[**az network**](#az-network) [local-gateway create](#az-network-local-gateway-create) [public-ip create](#az-network-public-ip-create) [vpn-connection create](#az-network-vpn-connection-create) [vnet-gateway create](#az-network-vnet-gateway-create)
[**az network dns**](#az-network) [record-set a add-record](#az-network-dns-record-set-a-add-record) [record-set a create](#az-network-dns-record-set-a-create) [record-set a remove-record](#az-network-dns-record-set-a-remove-record) [record-set list](#az-network-dns-record-set-list) [zone create](#az-network-dns-zone-create) [zone export](#az-network-dns-zone-export) [zone import](#az-network-dns-zone-import)
[**az network lb**](#az-network) [create](#az-network-lb-create) [probe create](#az-network-lb-probe-create) [rule create](#az-network-lb-rule-create)
[**az network nic**](#az-network) [create](#az-network-nic-create) [ip-config address-pool add](#az-network-nic-ip-config-address-pool-add) [list-effective-nsg](#az-network-nic-list-effective-nsg) [show-effective-route-table](#az-network-nic-show-effective-route-table) [update](#az-network-nic-update)
[**az network nsg**](#az-network) [create](#az-network-nsg-create) [rule create](#az-network-nsg-rule-create)
[**az network route-table**](#az-network) [create](#az-network-route-table-create) [route create](#az-network-route-table-route-create)
[**az network vnet**](#az-network) [create](#az-network-vnet-create) [peering create](#az-network-vnet-peering-create) [peering list](#az-network-vnet-peering-list) [subnet create](#az-network-vnet-subnet-create) [subnet update](#az-network-vnet-subnet-update) [update](#az-network-vnet-update)
[**az network watcher**](#az-network) [packet-capture create](#az-network-watcher-packet-capture-create) [packet-capture show-status](#az-network-watcher-packet-capture-show-status) [packet-capture stop](#az-network-watcher-packet-capture-stop) [show-next-hop](#az-network-watcher-show-next-hop) [show-topology](#az-network-watcher-show-topology) [test-connectivity](#az-network-watcher-test-connectivity) [test-ip-flow](#az-network-watcher-test-ip-flow) [troubleshooting start](#az-network-watcher-troubleshooting-start)
[**az policy**](#az-policy) [assignment create](#az-policy-assignment-create) [assignment delete](#az-policy-assignment-delete) [definition create](#az-policy-definition-create) 
[**az provider**](#az-provider) [register](#az-provider-register) 
[**az resource**](#az-resource) [list](#az-resource-list) [move](#az-resource-move) [show](#az-resource-show) 
[**az role**](#az-role) [assignment create](#az-role-assignment-create) [assignment delete](#az-role-assignment-delete) [assignment list](#az-role-assignment-list) [definition list](#az-role-definition-list) 
[**az storage**](#az-storage) [account create](#az-storage-account-create) [account keys list](#az-storage-account-keys-list) [account keys renew](#az-storage-account-keys-renew) [account show-connection-string](#az-storage-account-show-connection-string) [blob copy start](#az-storage-blob-copy-start) [blob generate-sas](#az-storage-blob-generate-sas) [blob show](#az-storage-blob-show) [blob upload](#az-storage-blob-upload) [container create](#az-storage-container-create) [share create](#az-storage-share-create) 
[**az vm**](#az-vm) [availability-set create](#az-vm-availability-set-create) [create](#az-vm-create) [deallocate](#az-vm-deallocate) [disk attach](#az-vm-disk-attach) [extension set](#az-vm-extension-set) [generalize](#az-vm-generalize) [image list](#az-vm-image-list) [list-sizes](#az-vm-list-sizes) [list-vm-resize-options](#az-vm-list-vm-resize-options) [nic add](#az-vm-nic-add) [redeploy](#az-vm-redeploy) [resize](#az-vm-resize) 
[**az vmss**](#az-vmss) [create](#az-vmss-create) [extension set](#az-vmss-extension-set)

#### Add-AzKeyVaultKey
Creates a key in a key vault or imports a key into a key vault.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.keyvault/Add-AzKeyVaultKey) [2.1c.02](#21c02) [2.1c.03](#21c03))
#### Add-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig
Adds a probe configuration to a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Add-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Add-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig
Adds a rule configuration to a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Add-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Add-AzRouteConfig
Adds a route to a route table.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Add-AzRouteConfig) [4.1d.02](#41d02))
#### Add-AzVirtualNetworkPeering
Creates a peering between two virtual networks.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Add-AzVirtualNetworkPeering) [4.2a.02](#42a02))
#### Add-AzVMDataDisk
Adds a data disk to a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Add-AzVMDataDisk) [3.3a.02](#33a02))
#### Add-AzVMNetworkInterface
Adds a network interface to a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Add-AzVMNetworkInterface) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.3b.02](#33b02))
#### Add-AzVmssExtension
Adds an extension to the VMSS.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Add-AzVmssExtension) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Add-AzVmssNetworkInterfaceConfiguration
Adds a network interface configuration to the VMSS.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Add-AzVmssNetworkInterfaceConfiguration) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Connect-AzAccount
Connect to Azure with an authenticated account for use with Azure Resource Manager cmdlet requests.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.accounts/Connect-AzAccount) [3.1a.02](#31a02))
#### Export-AzResourceGroup
Captures a resource group as a template and saves it to a file.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Export-AzResourceGroup) [3.2e.04](#32e04))
#### Get-AzADGroup
Filters active directory groups.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Get-AzADGroup) [1.4c.08](#14c08) [1.4c.11](#14c11))
#### Get-AzEffectiveNetworkSecurityGroup
Gets the effective network security group of a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzEffectiveNetworkSecurityGroup) [4.4d.02](#44d02))
#### Get-AzEffectiveRouteTable
Gets the effective route table of a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzEffectiveRouteTable) [4.1d.02](#41d02))
#### Get-AzImage
Gets the properties of an image.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Get-AzImage) [3.1a.36](#31a36))
#### Get-AzLoadBalancer
Gets a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzLoadBalancer) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### Get-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig
Gets a backend address pool configuration for a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### Get-AzNetworkInterface
Gets a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzNetworkInterface) [4.3b.02](#43b02))
#### Get-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig
Gets a network interface IP configuration for a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### Get-AzNetworkWatcher
Gets the properties of a Network Watcher(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzNetworkWatcher) [4.6c.10](#46c10) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### Get-AzNetworkWatcherNextHop
Gets the next hop from a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzNetworkWatcherNextHop) [4.6c.07](#46c07))
#### Get-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture
Gets information and properties and status of a packet capture resource.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture) [4.6c.10](#46c10))
#### Get-AzNetworkWatcherTopology
Gets a network level view of resources and their relationships in a resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzNetworkWatcherTopology) [4.6c.13](#46c13))
#### Get-AzOperationalInsightsWorkspace
Gets information about a workspace.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.operationalinsights/Get-AzOperationalInsightsWorkspace) [1.2a.04](#12a04))
#### Get-AzProviderOperation
Gets the operations for an Azure resource provider that are securable using Azure RBAC.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Get-AzProviderOperation) [1.4b.03](#14b03))
#### Get-AzRemoteDesktopFile
Gets an .rdp file.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Get-AzRemoteDesktopFile) [3.1f.01](#31f01))
#### Get-AzResource
Gets resources.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Get-AzResource) [1.2a.02](#12a02) [3.3d.02](#33d02) [4.6c.10](#46c10) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### Get-AzResourceGroup
Gets resource groups.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Get-AzResourceGroup) [1.1b.04](#11b04))
#### Get-AzRoleDefinition
Lists all Azure RBAC roles that are available for assignment.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Get-AzRoleDefinition) [1.4b.01](#14b01) [1.4c.03](#14c03))
#### Get-AzServiceBusRule
Creates a new rule for a given Subscription of Topic.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.servicebus/Get-AzServiceBusRule) [1.2a.03](#12a03))
#### Get-AzStorageAccount
Gets a Storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Get-AzStorageAccount) [4.6c.10](#46c10))
#### Get-AzStorageAccountKey
Gets the access keys for an Azure Storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Get-AzStorageAccountKey) [2.1c.02](#21c02) [2.1c.04](#21c04) [2.1d.01](#21d01) [2.1f.02](#21f02) [2.2a.01](#22a01) [2.3a.02](#23a02) [2.3a.06](#23a06))
#### Get-AzStorageBlobCopyState
Gets the copy status of an Azure Storage blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Get-AzStorageBlobCopyState) [2.1f.03](#21f03))
#### Get-AzStorageUsage
Gets the Storage resource usage of the current subscription.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Get-AzStorageUsage) [1.1b.01](#11b01))
#### Get-AzVirtualNetwork
Gets a virtual network in a resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzVirtualNetwork) [3.3b.02](#33b02) [3.3b.02](#33b02) [4.1d.02](#41d02) [4.2a.02](#42a02) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.3c.01](#43c01) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### Get-AzVirtualNetworkGateway
Gets a Virtual Network Gateway(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzVirtualNetworkGateway) [4.7b.02](#47b02))
#### Get-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection
Gets a Virtual Network Gateway Connection(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### Get-AzVirtualNetworkPeering
Gets the virtual network peering.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzVirtualNetworkPeering) [4.2a.02](#42a02))
#### Get-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig
Gets a subnet in a virtual network.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Get-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### Get-AzVM
Gets the properties of a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Get-AzVM) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1c.01](#31c01) [3.1e.02](#31e02) [3.3a.02](#33a02) [3.3b.02](#33b02) [3.3c.02](#33c02) [4.3b.02](#43b02) [4.4c.02](#44c02) [4.5a.02](#45a02) [4.6c.10](#46c10))
#### Get-AzVMSize
Gets available virtual machine sizes.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Get-AzVMSize) [3.1c.01](#31c01) [3.3c.01](#33c01))
#### Get-AzVMUsage
Gets the virtual machine core count usage for a location.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Get-AzVMUsage) [1.1b.01](#11b01))
#### Move-AzResource
Moves a resource to a different resource group or subscription.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Move-AzResource) [3.3d.02](#33d02))
#### New-AzAvailabilitySet
Creates an Azure availability set.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzAvailabilitySet) [3.1b.02](#31b02))
#### New-AzDiskConfig
Creates a configurable disk object.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzDiskConfig) [3.3a.02](#33a02) [3.3a.02](#33a02))
#### New-AzImage
Creats an image.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzImage) [3.1a.05](#31a05))
#### New-AzImageConfig
Creates a configurable image object.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzImageConfig) [3.1a.05](#31a05))
#### New-AzKeyVault
Creates a key vault.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.keyvault/New-AzKeyVault) [2.1c.02](#21c02))
#### New-AzLoadBalancer
Creates a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzLoadBalancer) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### New-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig
Creates a backend address pool configuration for a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzLoadBalancerBackendAddressPoolConfig) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### New-AzLoadBalancerFrontendIpConfig
Creates a front-end IP configuration for a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzLoadBalancerFrontendIpConfig) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### New-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig
Creates a probe configuration for a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzLoadBalancerProbeConfig) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### New-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig
Creates a rule configuration for a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzLoadBalancerRuleConfig) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### New-AzLocalNetworkGateway
Creates a Local Network Gateway(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzLocalNetworkGateway) [4.7b.02](#47b02))
#### New-AzNetworkInterface
Creates a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzNetworkInterface) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.3b.02](#33b02))
#### New-AzNetworkSecurityGroup
Creates a network security group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzNetworkSecurityGroup) [3.1a.02](#31a02))
#### New-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig
Creates a network security rule configuration.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzNetworkSecurityRuleConfig) [3.1a.02](#31a02))
#### New-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture
Creates a new packet capture resource and starts a packet capture session on a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture) [4.6c.10](#46c10))
#### New-AzPacketCaptureFilterConfig
Creates a new packet capture filter object.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzPacketCaptureFilterConfig) [4.6c.10](#46c10))
#### New-AzPublicIpAddress
Creates a public IP address.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzPublicIpAddress) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.5a.02](#45a02) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### New-AzResourceGroup
Creates an Azure resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/New-AzResourceGroup) [2.1a.02](#21a02) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### New-AzResourceGroupDeployment
Adds an Azure deployment to a resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/New-AzResourceGroupDeployment) [3.2c.02](#32c02) [3.2d.01](#32d01) [3.2e.05](#32e05))
#### New-AzRoleAssignment
Assigns the specified RBAC role to the specified principal, at the specified scope.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/New-AzRoleAssignment) [1.4c.06](#14c06) [1.4c.08](#14c08))
#### New-AzRouteTable
Creates a route table.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzRouteTable) [4.1d.02](#41d02))
#### New-AzStorageAccount
Creates a Storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/New-AzStorageAccount) [2.1a.02](#21a02) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### New-AzStorageBlobSASToken
Generates a SAS token for an Azure storage blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/New-AzStorageBlobSASToken) [2.1d.01](#21d01))
#### New-AzStorageContainer
Creates an Azure storage container.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/New-AzStorageContainer) [2.1f.02](#21f02) [2.2a.01](#22a01) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### New-AzStorageContext
Creates an Azure Storage context.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/New-AzStorageContext) [2.1d.01](#21d01) [2.1f.02](#21f02) [2.2a.01](#22a01) [2.3a.02](#23a02))
#### New-AzStorageShare
Creates a file share.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/New-AzStorageShare) [2.3a.02](#23a02))
#### New-AzVirtualNetwork
Creates a virtual network.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzVirtualNetwork) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [4.3b.02](#43b02))
#### New-AzVirtualNetworkGateway
Creates a Virtual Network Gateway(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzVirtualNetworkGateway) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection
Creates the Site-to-Site VPN connection between the virtual network gateway and the on-prem VPN device.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayConnection) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.7b.02](#47b02))
#### New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayIpConfig
Creates an IP Configuration for a Virtual Network Gateway(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzVirtualNetworkGatewayIpConfig) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig
Creates a virtual network subnet configuration.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/New-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1h.02](#31h02) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### New-AzVMConfig
Creates a configurable virtual machine object.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzVMConfig) [3.1a.02](#31a02))
#### New-AzVmss
Creates a VMSS.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzVmss) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### New-AzVmssIpConfig
Creates an IP configuration for a network interface of a VMSS.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/New-AzVmssIpConfig) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Publish-AzVMDscConfiguration
Uploads a DSC script to Azure blob storage.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Publish-AzVMDscConfiguration) [3.3f.01](#33f01) [3.3f.03](#33f03))
#### Register-AzResourceProvider
Registers a resource provider.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Register-AzResourceProvider) [4.4c.03](#44c03))
#### Remove-AzResourceGroup
Removes a resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Remove-AzResourceGroup) [1.3.01](#1301) [1.3.02](#1302))
#### Remove-AzRoleAssignment
Removes a role assignment to the specified principal who is assigned to a particular role at a particular scope.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Remove-AzRoleAssignment) [1.4c.10](#14c10) [1.4c.11](#14c11))
#### Restart-AzVM
Restarts an Azure virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Restart-AzVM) [4.3b.02](#43b02))
#### Save-AzResourceGroupDeploymentTemplate
Saves a resource group deployment template to a file.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Save-AzResourceGroupDeploymentTemplate) [3.2e.03](#32e03))
#### Set-AzCurrentStorageAccount
Modifies the current Storage account of the specified subscription.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Set-AzCurrentStorageAccount) [2.2a.01](#22a01) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### Set-AzKeyVaultSecret
Creates or updates a secret in a key vault.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.keyvault/Set-AzKeyVaultSecret) [2.1c.02](#21c02))
#### Set-AzLoadBalancer
Updates a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Set-AzLoadBalancer) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Set-AzNetworkInterface
Updates a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Set-AzNetworkInterface) [4.3b.02](#43b02) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### Set-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig
Updates an IP configuration for a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Set-AzNetworkInterfaceIpConfig) [4.5a.02](#45a02))
#### Set-AzResourceGroup
Modifies a resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.resources/Set-AzResourceGroup) [1.1b.03](#11b03) [1.1b.04](#11b04))
#### Set-AzRouteTable
Updates a route table.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Set-AzRouteTable) [4.1d.02](#41d02))
#### Set-AzStorageAccount
Modifies a Storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Set-AzStorageAccount) [2.1a.04](#21a04) [2.1e.01](#21e01))
#### Set-AzStorageBlobContent
Uploads a local file to an Azure Storage blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Set-AzStorageBlobContent) [2.2a.01](#22a01))
#### Set-AzVirtualNetwork
Updates a virtual network.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Set-AzVirtualNetwork) [4.1d.02](#41d02) [4.2b.02](#42b02) [4.3b.02](#43b02) [4.7a.02](#47a02))
#### Set-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig
Updates a subnet configuration for a virtual network.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Set-AzVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig) [4.1d.02](#41d02))
#### Set-AzVM
Marks a virtual machine as generalized.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVM) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.3e.01](#33e01))
#### Set-AzVMCustomScriptExtension
Adds a custom script extension to a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMCustomScriptExtension) [3.3f.04](#33f04))
#### Set-AzVMDataDisk
Modifies properties of a virtual machine data disk.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMDataDisk) [3.1e.02](#31e02))
#### Set-AzVMDscExtension
Configures the DSC extension on a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMDscExtension) [3.3f.03](#33f03))
#### Set-AzVMExtension
Updates extension properties or adds an extension to a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMExtension) [4.4c.02](#44c02) [4.6c.01](#46c01))
#### Set-AzVMOperatingSystem
Sets operating system properties for a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMOperatingSystem) [3.1a.02](#31a02))
#### Set-AzVMOSDisk
Sets the operating system disk properties on a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMOSDisk) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1a.34](#31a34))
#### Set-AzVMSourceImage
Specifies the image for a virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVMSourceImage) [3.1a.02](#31a02) [3.1a.36](#31a36))
#### Set-AzVmssOsProfile
Sets the VMSS operating system profile properties.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVmssOsProfile) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Set-AzVmssStorageProfile
Sets the storage profile properties for the VMSS.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Set-AzVmssStorageProfile) [3.1h.02](#31h02))
#### Start-AzNetworkWatcherResourceTroubleshooting
Starts troubleshooting on a Networking resource in Azure.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Start-AzNetworkWatcherResourceTroubleshooting) [4.6d.02](#46d02))
#### Start-AzStorageBlobCopy
Starts to copy a blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.storage/Start-AzStorageBlobCopy) [2.1f.02](#21f02))
#### Stop-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture
Stops a running packet capture session(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Stop-AzNetworkWatcherPacketCapture) [4.6c.10](#46c10))
#### Stop-AzVM
Stops an Azure virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Stop-AzVM) [3.3b.02](#33b02))
#### Test-AzNetworkWatcherConnectivity
Returns connectivity information for a specified source VM and a destination.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Test-AzNetworkWatcherConnectivity) [4.6e.02](#46e02))
#### Test-AzNetworkWatcherIPFlow
Returns whether the packet is allowed or denied to or from a particular destination.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.network/Test-AzNetworkWatcherIPFlow) [4.6c.04](#46c04))
#### Update-AzVM
Updates the state of an Azure virtual machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/Update-AzVM) [3.1c.01](#31c01) [3.1e.02](#31e02) [3.3a.02](#33a02) [3.3c.02](#33c02))
#### az account
Manage Azure subscription information.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account) )
#### az account list-locations
List supported regions for the current subscription.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/account/list-locations) [3.1a.03](#31a03))
#### az ad
Manage Azure Active Directory Graph entities needed for Role Based Access Control.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad) )
#### az ad group list
List groups in the directory.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/group/list) [1.4c.09](#14c09) [1.4c.13](#14c13))
#### az backup
Manage Azure Backups.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/backup) )
#### az backup vault create
Create a new Recovery Services vault.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/backup/vault/create) [3.1a.03](#31a03))
#### az group
Manage resource groups and template deployments.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/group) )
#### az group create
Create a new resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/group/create) [2.1a.03](#21a03) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.1h.03](#31h03))
#### az group delete
Delete a resource group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/group/delete) [1.3.03](#1303) [1.3.04](#1304))
#### az group deployment create
Start a deployment.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/group/deployment/create) [3.2c.03](#32c03) [3.2d.01](#32d01) [3.2e.05](#32e05))
#### az group deployment export
Export the template used for a deployment.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/group/deployment/export) [3.2e.03](#32e03))
#### az group export
Captures a resource group as a template.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/group/export) [3.2e.04](#32e04))
#### az image
Manage custom virtual machine images.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/image) )
#### az image create
Create a custom Virtual Machine Image from managed disks or snapshots.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/image/create) [3.1a.06](#31a06))
#### az keyvault
Manage KeyVault keys, secrets, and certificates.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/keyvault) )
#### az keyvault create
Create a key vault.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/keyvault/create) [2.1c.07](#21c07))
#### az keyvault key create
Creates a new key, stores it, then returns key parameters and attributes to the client.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/keyvault/key/create) [2.1c.08](#21c08))
#### az keyvault secret set
Create a secret (if one doesn't exist) or update a secret in a KeyVault.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/keyvault/secret/set) [2.1c.09](#21c09))
#### az login
Log in to Azure.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/login) [3.1a.03](#31a03))
#### az monitor
Manage the Azure Monitor Service.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/monitor) )
#### az monitor diagnostic-settings create
Create diagnostic settings for the specified resource.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/monitor/diagnostic-settings/create) [1.2a.05](#12a05) [1.2a.06](#12a06) [1.2a.07](#12a07) [1.2a.08](#12a08))
#### az network
Manage Azure Network resources.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network) )
#### az network dns record-set a add-record
Add an A record.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/record-set/a#az-network-dns-record-set-a-add-record) [4.3a.03](#43a03))
#### az network dns record-set a create
Create an empty A record set.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/record-set/a#az-network-dns-record-set-a-create) [4.3a.03](#43a03))
#### az network dns record-set a remove-record
Remove an A record from its record set.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/record-set/a#az-network-dns-record-set-a-remove-record) [4.3a.03](#43a03))
#### az network dns record-set list
List all record sets within a DNS zone.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/record-set#az-network-dns-record-set-list) [4.3a.03](#43a03))
#### az network dns zone create
Create a DNS zone.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/zone#az-network-dns-zone-create) [4.3a.03](#43a03) [4.3c.01](#43c01))
#### az network dns zone export
Export a DNS zone as a DNS zone file.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/zone#az-network-dns-zone-export) [4.3a.03](#43a03))
#### az network dns zone import
Create a DNS zone using a DNS zone file.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/dns/zone#az-network-dns-zone-import) [4.3a.03](#43a03))
#### az network lb create
Create a load balancer.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/lb/create) [4.5a.03](#45a03))
#### az network lb probe create
Create a probe.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/lb/probe#az-network-lb-probe-create) [4.5a.03](#45a03))
#### az network lb rule create
Create a load balancing rule.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/lb/rule#az-network-lb-rule-create) [4.5a.03](#45a03))
#### az network local-gateway create
Create a local VPN gateway.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/local-gateway/create) [4.7b.03](#47b03))
#### az network nic create
Create a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nic/create) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.3b.02](#33b02))
#### az network nic ip-config address-pool add
Add an address pool to an IP configuration.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nic/ip-config/address-pool#az-network-nic-ip-config-address-pool-add) [4.5a.03](#45a03))
#### az network nic list-effective-nsg
List all effective network security groups applied to a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nic/list-effective-nsg) [4.4d.03](#44d03))
#### az network nic show-effective-route-table
Show the effective route table applied to a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nic/show-effective-route-table) [4.1d.03](#41d03))
#### az network nic update
Update a network interface.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nic/update) [4.3b.03](#43b03))
#### az network nsg create
Create a network security group.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nsg/create) [3.1a.03](#31a03))
#### az network nsg rule create
Create a network security group rule.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/nsg/rule#az-network-nsg-rule-create) [3.1a.03](#31a03))
#### az network public-ip create
Create a public IP address.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/public-ip/create) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [4.2b.03](#42b03) [4.5a.03](#45a03) [4.7a.03](#47a03))
#### az network route-table create
Create a route table.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/route-table/create) [4.1d.03](#41d03))
#### az network route-table route create
Create a route in a route table.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/route-table/route#az-network-route-table-route-create) [4.1d.03](#41d03))
#### az network vnet create
Create a virtual network.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet/create) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [4.3b.03](#43b03))
#### az network vnet peering create
Create a virtual network peering connection.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet/peering#az-network-vnet-peering-create) [4.2a.03](#42a03))
#### az network vnet peering list
List peerings.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet/peering#az-network-vnet-peering-list) [4.2a.03](#42a03))
#### az network vnet subnet create
Create a subnet and associate an existing NSG and route table.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet/subnet#az-network-vnet-subnet-create) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [4.2b.03](#42b03) [4.7a.03](#47a03))
#### az network vnet subnet update
Update a subnet.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet/subnet#az-network-vnet-subnet-update) [4.1d.03](#41d03))
#### az network vnet update
Update a virtual network.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet/update) [4.3b.03](#43b03))
#### az network vnet-gateway create
Create a virtual network gateway.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vnet-gateway/create) [4.2b.03](#42b03) [4.7a.03](#47a03))
#### az network vpn-connection create
Create a VPN connection.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/vpn-connection/create) [4.2b.03](#42b03) [4.7b.03](#47b03))
#### az network watcher packet-capture create
Create and start a packet capture session.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/packet-capture#az-network-watcher-packet-capture-create) [4.6c.11](#46c11))
#### az network watcher packet-capture show-status
Show the status of a packet capture session.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/packet-capture#az-network-watcher-packet-capture-show-status) [4.6c.11](#46c11))
#### az network watcher packet-capture stop
Stop a running packet capture session.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/packet-capture#az-network-watcher-packet-capture-stop) [4.6c.11](#46c11))
#### az network watcher show-next-hop
Get information on the 'next hop' of a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/show-next-hop) [4.6c.08](#46c08))
#### az network watcher show-topology
Get the network topology of a resource group, virtual network or subnet.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/show-topology) [4.6c.14](#46c14))
#### az network watcher test-connectivity
Test if a connection can be established between a Virtual Machine and a given endpoint.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/test-connectivity) [4.6e.03](#46e03))
#### az network watcher test-ip-flow
Test IP flow to/from a VM given the currently configured network security group rules.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/test-ip-flow) [4.6c.05](#46c05))
#### az network watcher troubleshooting start
Troubleshoot issues with VPN connections or gateway connectivity.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/network/watcher/troubleshooting#az-network-watcher-troubleshooting-start) [4.6d.03](#46d03))
#### az policy
Manage resource policies.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/policy) )
#### az policy assignment create
Create a resource policy assignment.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/policy/assignment/create) [1.1c.04](#11c04))
#### az policy assignment delete
Delete a resource policy assignment.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/policy/assignment/delete) [1.1c.05](#11c05) [1.1c.05](#11c05))
#### az policy definition create
Create a policy definition.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/policy/definition/create) [1.1c.03](#11c03))
#### az provider
Manage resource providers.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/provider) )
#### az provider register
Register a provider.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/provider/register) [1.1c.02](#11c02) [4.4c.04](#44c04))
#### az resource
Manage Azure resources.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/resource) )
#### az resource list
List resources.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/resource/list) [3.3d.03](#33d03))
#### az resource move
Moves resources from one resource group to another(can be under different subscription).(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/resource/move) [3.3d.03](#33d03))
#### az resource show
Get the details of a resource.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/resource/show) [1.2a.05](#12a05))
#### az role
Manage user roles for access control with Azure Active Directory and service principals.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/role) )
#### az role assignment create
Create a new role assignment for a user, group, or service principal.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/role/assignment/create) [1.4c.07](#14c07) [1.4c.09](#14c09))
#### az role assignment delete
Delete role assignments.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/role/assignment/delete) [1.4c.12](#14c12) [1.4c.13](#14c13))
#### az role assignment list
List role assignments.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/role/assignment/list) [1.4c.05](#14c05))
#### az role definition list
List role definitions.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/role/definition/list) [1.4b.02](#14b02) [1.4c.04](#14c04))
#### az storage
Manage Azure Cloud Storage resources.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage) )
#### az storage account create
Create a storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/account/create) [2.1a.03](#21a03) [4.6d.03](#46d03))
#### az storage account keys list
List the primary and secondary keys for a storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/account/keys#az-storage-account-keys-list) [4.6d.03](#46d03))
#### az storage account keys renew
Regenerates one of the access keys for the specified storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/account/keys#az-storage-account-keys-renew) [2.1c.01](#21c01))
#### az storage account show-connection-string
Get the connection string for a storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/account/show-connection-string) [2.3a.03](#23a03))
#### az storage blob copy start
Copies a blob asynchronously. Use `az storage blob show` to check the status of the blobs.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/blob/copy#az-storage-blob-copy-start) [2.1f.04](#21f04))
#### az storage blob generate-sas
Generates a shared access signature for the blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/blob/generate-sas) [2.1d.02](#21d02))
#### az storage blob show
Get the details of a blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/blob/show) [2.1f.05](#21f05))
#### az storage blob upload
Upload a file to a storage blob.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/blob/upload) [2.2a.03](#22a03))
#### az storage container create
Create a container in a storage account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/container/create) [2.2a.02](#22a02) [4.6d.03](#46d03))
#### az storage share create
Creates a new share under the specified account.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/storage/share/create) [2.3a.03](#23a03))
#### az vm
Manage Linux or Windows virtual machines.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm) )
#### az vm availability-set create
Create an Azure Availability Set.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/availability-set/create) [3.1b.03](#31b03))
#### az vm create
Create an Azure Virtual Machine.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/create) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.1a.07](#31a07) [3.1a.35](#31a35) [3.1a.37](#31a37))
#### az vm deallocate
Deallocate a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/deallocate) [3.1a.06](#31a06))
#### az vm disk attach
Attach a managed persistent disk to a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/disk/attach) [3.1e.03](#31e03) [3.3a.02](#33a02))
#### az vm extension set
Set extensions for a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/extension/set) [3.3f.04](#33f04) [4.6c.02](#46c02))
#### az vm generalize
Mark a VM as generalized, allowing it to be imaged for multiple deployments.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/generalize) [3.1a.06](#31a06))
#### az vm image list
List the VM/VMSS images available in the Azure Marketplace.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/image/list) [3.1a.03](#31a03))
#### az vm list-sizes
List available sizes for VMs.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/list-sizes) [3.1a.03](#31a03) [3.1c.02](#31c02))
#### az vm list-vm-resize-options
List available resizing options for VMs.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/list-vm-resize-options) [3.1c.02](#31c02))
#### az vm nic add
Add existing NICs to a VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/nic/add) [3.3b.02](#33b02))
#### az vm redeploy
Redeploy an existing VM.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/redeploy) [3.3e.01](#33e01))
#### az vm resize
Update a VM's size.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vm/resize) [3.1c.02](#31c02))
#### az vmss
Manage groupings of virtual machines in an Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set (VMSS).(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vmss) )
#### az vmss create
Create an Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vmss/create) [3.1h.03](#31h03))
#### az vmss extension set
Add an extension to a VMSS or update an existing extension.(refs [MD](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/vmss/extension/set) [3.1h.03](#31h03))

