# XI KAI KUBÁD: HE REIGNED ONE HUNDRED YEARS

## ARGUMENT

Kai Kubád ascends the throne, and defeats the Túránians. Rustam in this his first campaign greatly distinguishes himself, and nearly takes Afrásiyáb prisoner. Pashang, the father of Afrásiyáb and ruler of Túrán, sues for peace and terms are arranged. Kai Kubád rewards Zál, Rustam, and others for their services, and makes Istakhr his capital. At the end of a long and glorious reign he dies after appointing his son Kai Káús as his successor.

### NOTE

Kai Kubád is mentioned at least twice in the Zandavasta, where he appears under the name of Kaváta, or Kavi Kaváta, and the name of his son Kai Káús appears both there and in the Vedas. We have no accounts of Kai Kubád's ancestry in the poem beyond the vague statement that he was descended from Farídún.

He is described indeed as being brought by Rustam from Mount Alburz—the great mythical range which was supposed to encircle the earth. According to the Bundahish, Kai Kubád, like Dáráb after him, was exposed at birth and was found and adopted by Zav, the son of Tahmásp, the ninth Sháh.

The same authority describes him as reigning for fifteen years.

## § 1 How Kai Kubád ascended the Throne and warred against Túrán

WHEN Kai Kubád acceded to the throne,<br>
And donned the jewelled crown, chiefs such as Zál,<br>
Káran the warrior, Kishwád, Kharrád,<br>
And valorous Barzín, flocked round and scattered<br>
Gems over that new crown. They said: “O Sháh<br>
Prepare to fight the Turkmans.” 
Hearing this<br>
He went, reviewed his host, and on the morrow<br>
Marched forth while shouts rose from his tent-enclosure.<br>
Then Rustam armed and like an angry elephant<br>
Sent up the dust, the troops arrayed their ranks,<br>
And girt their loins for bloodshed. On one wing<br>
Mihráb the master of Kábul was stationed,<br>
Upon the other doughty Gustaham.<br>
Káran the warrior was in the centre<br>
With bold Kishwád the shatterer of hosts,<br>
While Rustam led the van with chiefs and heroes,<br>
And Zál and Kai Kubád as their supports.<br>
Here there was fire, there storm, while Káwa's standard<br>
Amid the van made earth red, violet,<br>
And yellow, and the seated world was like<br>
A wave-tossed barque upon the sea of Chín.<br>
The deserts and the dales were carpeted<br>
By shields on shields, the falchions gleamed like lamps,<br>
And all the world became a sea of pitch<br>
Whereon a hundred thousand tapers burned.<br>
Thou wouldst have said: “The sun hath lost its way<br>
Frayed by the trumpets' blare and warriors' shouts!”<br>
The hosts encountered, none knew van from rear.<br>
Káran o'erthrew ten warriors at each charge;<br>
Now wheeling to the left, now to the right,<br>
And seeking to wreak vengeance on all sides,<br>
He made earth mountain-like with slain, astounding<br>
The bravest Turkmans. Seeing Shamásás,<br>
Who raised the war-??ry lion-like, he charged,<br>
Unsheathed his sword, smote his foe's head, and<br>
shouted:— 
“The fan ed Káran am I,” while Shamásás<br>
Sank to the ground and perished in a breath.<br>
The manner of this ancient sky is so,<br>
At whiles like arrow and at whiles like bow!

## § 2 How Rustam fought with Afrásiyáb

When Rustam saw the doings of Káran,
And what war is, he went to Zál and said:—
“Tell me, O paladin of paladins!
Where doth malevolent Afrásiyáb
Stand in the fight? Describe his garb and banner.
I see a fluttering flag of violet.
Describe him that I may encounter him,
And so exalt my head among the chieftains.
To-day will I lay hold upon his girdle
And bring him hither haled upon his face.”
Zál answered: “Hearken unto me, my son!
And run no risks to-day. He is a Dragon,
Whose breath is fire—a Cloud of bale in war.
His flag and mail are black, his helm and brassards
Of iron flecked with gold, his plume is sable.
Avoid him, he is brave, his fortune sleepless.”
“Be not concerned for me,” was Rustam's answer.
“With God mine aid, heart, sword, and arm my ramparts,
Although he be a Dragon and a dív
Yet will I bring him by the belt, and thou
Shalt see me make him lifeless in the mellay,
So dealing that Pashang's troops shall bewail him.”
That lion-youth—the shelter of the host—
Urged on his steed—Rakhsh of the brazen hoofs—
And shouting mid the trumpet-blare approached
The army of Túrán. Afrásiyáb
Beheld amazed the lad not fully grown
And asked: “Who is he, for I know him not—
Yon Dragon broken loose in such a fashion?”
One said: “The son of Zál the son of Sám.
Dost thou not see him with his grandsire's mace?
He is a youth and eager for distinction.”
Then like a vessel lifted by the waves
Afrásiyáb came forth while Rustam clipped
Rakhsh firmly, shouldering his massive mace,
But hung it to his saddle when he closed;
Then, having caught the monarch by the belt,
And dragged him from his poplar saddle, hoped
To carry him to Kai Kubád to tell
The story of this first day's fight; but through
The chieftain's weight and Rustam's grasp the girdle
Snapped, and the king came headlong to the ground,
Whereat his cavaliers surrounded him,
While Rustam, when the chief escaped his clutch,
Gnawed at his hand's back in chagrin and cried:—
“Why did I take him not beneath the armpit
And simply make him handfast with his girdle?”
While from the elephants' backs the sound of bells
Rose, and the drums were heard for miles, men brought
The Sháh glad tidings: “Rustam,” they reported,
“Brake through the centre of the Turkman host
And reached their general whose standard now
Hath disappeared, for Rustam seized his girdle
And flung him easily. The Turkmans yelled,
The valiant chiefs formed round their fallen king,
And bare him off. When vanquished thus he mounted
A fleet steed, fled toward the plain, and left
His host to save his life.”
At this good news
The Sháh gave orders to his troops to fall
In mass like wind upon the enemy
And utterly o'erthrow them, fruit and root.
He rose himself like fire, and all his host
Heaved like a stormy sea. Zál and Mihráb,
The Lion, went forth keen and valorous;
The din of battle rose with falchion-flash
And thud of shaft, while heads grew dazed as axes
Crashed on gold helm and shield. Thou wouldst
have said:—
“A cloud somewhence hath risen and is flecking
Yon oranges with magic cinnabar!”
Upon that day of battle sank and rose
Blood to the Fish and dust-clouds to the Moon,
While through the horse-hoofs on that spacious plain
One earth flew up to make another heaven!
Heroic Rustam in the fight that day
With dirk and lasso, mace and scimitar,
Clave into pieces, rent and brake and bound
The heads, breasts, feet, and hands of warriors,
For eight and fifty score of gallant chiefs
That Lion slaughtered in a single charge.
Zál gazing on his son illustrious
In Grace and might felt his heart throb with joy
To see such prowess, while the Turkmans pressed
Thus by the Magian host sought Dámaghán,
And thence fled toward Jíhún with stricken hearts,
With din and dudgeon, with their weapons broken
And girdles snapped—a trumpless, drumless mob.
The paladins that led the Íránian host
Turned from pursuing and drew near the Sháh,
All plunder-wearied, bringing band on band
Of captive Turkmans. When the troops were back
In camp again the mighty men approached
The monarch of the world, extolling him,
While Rustam also went before the Sháh,
Who seated him on one side of the throne
And famous Zál upon the other one.
## § 3 How Afrásiyáb came to his Father
Upon the Turkman side Afrásiyáb
Fled to the river-bank and tarried there
For seven days, made ready on the eighth,
And gat him to his sire, all rage and grief;
His tongue was long although his hands were shortened.
“O famous king!” said he, “the fault was thine
In seeking war; the mighty men of old
Gave kings no precedent for breach of faith.
The offspring of Íraj polluteth still
The earth; that poison gnaweth yet; they come
Without a break to lord it o'er the world.
Now 'tis Kubád; he hath assumed the crown
And flung the gates of vengeance wide again.
A cavalier of Sám's seed hath appeared,
By Zál named Rustam. Like a crocodile
Enraged he charged and thou hadst said: “His breath
Will burn the world.” He sped o'er hill and dale,
And plied mace, sword, and stirrup. All the air
Rang with his crashing mace. Life was not worth
A pinch of dust to me. He overthrew
Our host; none ever saw a sight so strange!
He spied my flag, put down his massive mace,
And snatched me from my poplar saddle so
That thou hadst said I was not one gnat's weight!
My girdle and my hauberk's fastening snapped,
I tumbled from his grasp beneath his feet.
No lion hath such strength, his feet touch earth,
His head is in the clouds. My cavaliers
Can??e up and saved me from that Mountain's clutches.
Thou know'st how kingly are my heart and hand,
My prowess, deeds, and enterprise, yet I
Am but a fibre in his grasp. Such worship
Perturbeth me. I saw a monstrous form
With lion's claws. My wits and senses fled.
Hill, cave, and level road were one to him
When his mad Elephant was put to speed.
A thousand maces in good sooth and more
Fell on his famous helm: thou wouldst have said:—
‘They fashioned him of iron, brought him up
On stones and brass!’ What is a sea or mountain,
Fierce lion or mad elephant to him?
He pricketh forth as on a hunting-day,
And battle is his pastime. Had such might
Been Sám's no Turkman chief would now survive.
We can but sue for peace, because thy troops
Give way before him. I, an atheling,
Thine army's stay and thine own help in need,
Have no strength left to fight with him. Go to,
Take counsel and make peace. They gave the land,
Assigned of old by Farídún to Túr,
To me; and that apportionment was just.
Revive not ancient feuds for, if we pass
The boundary and prosecute the war,
We shall but make the world strait to ourselves.
Thou know'st that sight is better than report,
For hearsay's belly is an empty one.
To fight Írán appeared a jest to thee,
The soldiers think that it hath gone too far.
Defer not to to-morrow this day's work;
Who knoweth what to-morrow may bring forth?
The roses blooming in the garden now
To-morrow thou wouldst pluck—when they are
worthless!
Mark what a wealth of golden equipage,
Of golden helmets and of golden shields,
How many Arab steeds with golden bits,
What Indian scimitars with golden scabbards,
And, over and above these, what famed chieftains
The blast hath vilely borne away—Kulbád,
And bold Bármán who hunted lions only,
And Kharzarwán, whom Zál hath dashed to pieces
And shown his massive mace's mastery,
Fierce Shamásás—the shelter of the host—
Slain by Káran upon the battlefield,
And, in addition to these famous men,
Ten thousand others slaughtered in this war:
Worse still, observe the breach of fame and honour
That we can never bind. Though I have slain
One famous chief—illustrious Ighríras—
Let fortune's good and ill cry quits to-day,
And leave to-morrow for the reckoning;
Because the haughty chiefs have come to me,
The heroes, each one with his flag behind him,
And told me much that happened when I fled
In dudgeon and they followed. Now revive not
The memory of the past, but strive to make
A peace with Kai Kubád, lest hosts should come
Upon thee from four sides: on this side Rustam,
Whose prowess in the fight outshineth Sol;
On that Káran, whose eye ne'er saw defeat;
Upon the third Kishwád, the golden-helmed,
Who brought the captives from Ámul; Mihráb
Is on the fourth, next to the Sháh in place,
Lord of Kábul, a man of rede and Grace.”
## § 4 How Pashang sued to Kai Kubád for Peace
The chieftain of Túrán, whose eyes were tearful,
Was all astonied at Afrásiyáb
That he should have bethought him of such words,
And that his soul had turned to what was just.
He chose a prudent envoy for Irán,
And wrote a letter worthy of the Artang,
Decked with a hundred colours and designs:—
“In the name of Him who ruleth sun and moon,
And gave to us the faculty of praise!
May He accept the soul of Farídún,
From whom our race deriveth, warp and woof.
Hear now, O famous Kai Kubád! and I
Will utter words of kingly rede and right.
Túr brought calamity on blest Íraj
Upon a question touching crown and throne.
On this I say that feuds should not endure
For ever, and if vengeance for Íraj
Was owing it was wreaked by Minúchihr.
In that first settlement by Farídún,
Whose object was a just apportionment,
It will be well for us to acquiesce
And not transgress the precedents of kings.
From Turkestán to Má wara 'u'n-Nahr,
Whose boundary is Jíhún, that is our share.
When Farídún was Sháh Íraj ne'er saw it,
But had from him his blessing and Írán.
If we transgress these boundaries and fight
We make earth strait to us, the scimitars
Will clash, God will be wroth, and we shall lose
Our portion in both worlds. What Farídún
Divided unto Salm, Túr, and Íraj,
Let us retain and then be friends henceforth,
For earth itself is worth not so much bale.
The reverend head of Zál hath grown like snow,
The dust is crimson with our warriors' blood,
And yet a man will only own at last
His body's length of all that he possesseth!
We with a shroud for robe, a grave for home,
Shall own but some five cubits' length of earth;
All other wishes are but care and toil—
A cause for trouble in this Wayside Inn.
If Kai Kubád doth acquiesce in this,
And if that sage's head ensueth right,
Not one of us shall dream of the Jíhún,
But let the Íránians keep to their own side.
It may be that good will and intercourse
Will make both realms contented with this pact.”
He sealed and sent this to the Íránian host
With jewels, crowns, gold thrones, fair damsels girt
With gold, Arabian steeds with golden trappings,
And Indian swords in silvern sheaths besides
The goodliest native wares. The envoy reached
Kubád and gave the letter and the message.
The king of kings read and replied at large:—
“We did not recommence; this war was caused
Directly by Afrásiyáb. The wrong
Began with Túr when he bereaved a prince
Such as Íraj was of the throne, and now
It is Afrásiyáb that crosseth over
The river to invade us. Thou hast heard
His treatment of Naudar, which filled wild beasts
With grief and pain, while on wise Ighríras
He did a deed unworthy of a man.
Yet if ye do repent I will renew
The compact, though I well could take revenge,
Armed as I am for all emergencies,
Thus leaving you the lands beyond the river,
And then perchance Afrásiyáb will rest.”
The Sháh drew up the treaty and thus planted
A fresh tree in the garden of his greatness.
The envoy went and brought with leopard's speed
The letter to Pashang, who packed his baggage,
Marched back, and sent the dust-clouds heavenward.
He crossed Jíhún like wind, and news thereof
Reached Kai Kubád, who joyed because the foe
Withdrew without a fight, but Rustam said:—
“Look not, O Sháh! for peace in time of war.
Of old we ne'er had rest from their assaults;
My mace it was that made them thus to-day.”
Thus to that noble chief spake Kai Kubád:—
“Naught have I seen more goodly than the right.
Pashang, a scion of blest Farídún.
Avoideth strife for he hath had enough,
And men of wisdom must not look upon him
Askance and with injustice. I will draw
A deed of gift on silk for thee of all
Between the Indus and Zábulistán.
Go take the throne and crown too of Nímrúz,
And lighten all the world. Upon this side
Give to Mihráb Kábul, and keep thy spearpoints
Sharp, for where'er a king is there is war
Though earth is broad enough.”
The Sháh prepared
Gifts both for Rustam and for Zál whose head
He crowned, whose loins he girt, with gold, and gave
Half of the world to him. He kissed the ground.
Kubád the fortune-favoured further said:—
“Ne'er may the throne of majesty lack Zál,
One hair of whom outweigheth all the world;
He is the heirloom left us by the great.”
They furnished forth five elephants with litters
Inlaid with turquoise brighter than Nile-water,
And spread upon the litters cloth of gold,
Besides unreckoned wealth, a royal robe
Of gold, a crown and girdle wrought of jewels
And turquoise, all of which he sent to Zál,
And said: “I fain had sent a greater gift,
And, should long life be mine, I will not leave
A wish of thine unsatisfied on earth.”
Moreover on Káran the warrior,
Upon Kishwád, Kharrád, Barzín, Púlád,
He showered robes of honour as was fit,
And to the rest that seemed to him deserving
Gave money, shields, and swords, or, if he felt
Their merit greater still, a sword and belt.
## § 5 How Kai Kubád came to Istakhr of Párs
Thence Kai Kubád departed unto Párs
Where lay his treasury. The capital
Was then Istakhr—the glory of the Kaians.
With general assent he claimed the crown
And, mounted on the Kaian throne, held sway
By justice and the customs of the wise.
He thus addressed the chiefs: “The world is mine.
For elephants to war on gnats would make
A breach in Faith and justice. I will have
Naught but the right, for of God's anger cometh
Disaster. I have brought men peace by toil
And justice, and where earth and water are
My treasure is. Kings are my bodyguard;
I hold the citizen and soldier equal.
Make God your refuge, be ye wise and harmless,
Enjoy what ye possess, give liberally,
And thank me too for that which ye enjoy;
While they that want and cannot live by work
Shall pasture at my court.”
He gathered troops,
And went about inspecting everywhere.
Thus for ten years he roved and ministered
All justice publicly and privily.
He built him many cities—jocund seats—
Such as the hundred that surrounded Rai,
But when the hand of time had fallen upon him
He set his face toward Párs, sat on the throne
'Mid archimages, readers of the stars,
And sages, gathered too his warriors,
And gazing on them with a wounded heart
Talked of the mighty who had passed away.
His gifts and justice made the world rejoice,
And thus he reached his hundredth year in joy.
See if the world hath any king like him.
He had four sons, all men endowed with wisdom,
To keep his memory alive on earth:
The first was glorious Káús, the second
Was Kai Árash, the third was Kai Pashín,
The fourth was Kai Armín. They walked the world
In peace and great content.
A century passed,
A change of fortune came to crown and throne,
For when the Sháh perceived that death drew near,
And that the green leaf was about to wither,
He summoned noble Kai Káús, spake much
Of justice and of generosity,
And said: “I load the baggage to depart.
Perform mine obsequies and take the throne,
Though as for me I seem but just arrived
Rejoicing with my men from Mount Alburz!
Oh! what a thing is fortune thus to leave us
Without a warning! They that worship it
Lack wisdom. Thou, if thou art just and upright,
Wilt have thy guerdon in the other world,
While if thy passions shall ensnare thy wits
Thou wilt unsheathe a sword whose edge is keen—
A sword wherewith thou first wilt wound thyself
And afterward resign it to the foe:
Thy dwelling there will be a place of fire;
Here bitterness of heart and grief be thine.”
He spake these words and leaving this wide world
Exchanged his palace for a sepulchre:
It hath been this world's way time out of mind
To form of dust and scatter to the wind.
The tale of Kai Kubád is at an end;
To that of Kai Káús attention lend.
