# Certified Associate of Python Programming, Module 1
#### 1.1.1 Your very first program
It’s time to start writing some real, working Python code. It’ll be very simple for the time being.\
As we’re going to show you some fundamental concepts and terms, these snippets of code won’t be serious or complex.\
Launch IDLE, create a new Python source file, fill it with this code, name the file and save it.\
```py
print("Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?")
```
Now run it. If everything goes okay, you’ll see the rhyme’s line in the IDLE console window.\
Alternatively, launch Edube Sandbox, enter the code in the editor window, and run it.\
If everything goes okay here, you'll see the line of text in the Edube console window.\
The code you have run should look familiar. You saw something very similar when we led you through the setting up of the IDLE environment.\
Now we’ll spend some time showing you what you’re actually seeing, and why it looks like this.  
As you can see, the first program consists of the following parts:
- the word print;
- an opening parenthesis;
- a quotation mark;
- a line taken from a classic nursery rhyme;
- another quotation mark;
- a closing parenthesis.

Each of the above plays a very important role in the code.

#### 1.1.2 The `print()` function
The word print that you can see here is a function name. That doesn’t mean that wherever the word appears it is always a function name. The meaning of the word comes from the context in which the word has been used.\
You’ve probably encountered the term function many times before, during math classes. You can probably also list several names of mathematical functions, like sine or log.\
Python’s functions, however, are more flexible, and can contain more content than their mathematical siblings.\
A function (in this context) is a separate part of the computer code,able to:
- **cause some effect** (e.g., send text to the terminal, create a file, draw an image, play a sound, etc.); this is something completely unheard of in the world of mathematics;
- **evaluate a value or some values** (e.g., the square root of a value or the length of a given text); this is what makes Python’s functions the relatives of mathematical concepts.

Moreover, many of Python’s functions can do the above two things together.\
Where do the functions come from?
- They may come from Python itself; the print function is one of this kind; such a function is an added value received together with Python and its environment (it is built-in); you don’t have to do anything special (e.g., ask anyone for anything) if you want to make use of it;
- they may come from one or more of Python’s add-ons named modules; some of the modules come with Python, others may require separate installation – whatever the case, they all need to be explicitly connected with your code (we’ll show you how to do that soon);
- you can write them yourself, placing as many functions as you want and need inside your program to make it simpler, clearer and more elegant.

The name of the function should be significant (the name of the print function is self-evident).\
Of course, if you’re going to make use of any already existing function, you have no influence on its name, but when you start writing your own functions, you should consider carefully your choice of names.

#### 1.1.3 The `print()` function
As we said before, a function may have:
- an effect;
- a result.

There’s also a third, very important, function component – the arguments.\
Mathematical functions usually take one argument, e.g., sin(x) takes an x, which is the measure of an angle.\
Python functions, on the other hand, are more versatile. Depending on the individual needs, they may accept any number of arguments – as many as necessary to perform their tasks. Note: any number includes zero – some Python functions don’t need any argument.\
In spite of the number of needed/provided arguments, Python functions strongly demand the presence of a pair of parentheses – opening and closing ones, respectively.\
If you want to deliver one or more arguments to a function, you place them inside the parentheses. If you’re going to use a function which doesn’t take any argument, you still have to have the parentheses.\
Note: to distinguish ordinary words from function names, place a pair of empty parentheses after their names, even if the corresponding function wants one or more arguments. This is a standard convention.\
The function we’re talking about here is `print()`.\
Does the `print()` function in this example have any arguments? Of course it does, but what are they?

#### 1.1.4 The `print()` function
The only argument delivered to the `print()` function in this example is a string.\
As you can see, the string is delimited with quotes – in fact, the quotes make the string – they cut out a part of the code and assign a different meaning to it.\
You can imagine that the quotes say something like: the text between us is not code. It isn’t intended to be executed, and you should take it as is.\
Almost anything you put inside the quotes will be taken literally, not as code, but as data. Try to play with this particular string – modify it, enter some new content, delete some of the existing content.\
There’s more than one way to specify a string inside Python’s code, but for now, though, this one is enough.\
So far, you have learned about two important parts of the code: the function and the string. We’ve talked about them in terms of syntax, but now it’s time to discuss them in terms of semantics.\

#### 1.1.5 The `print()` function
The function name (print in this case) along with the parentheses and argument(s), forms the function invocation. We’ll discuss this in more depth soon, but we should just shed a little light on it right now.\
What happens when Python encounters an invocation like this one?
- First, Python checks if the name specified is legal (it browses its internal data in order to find an existing function of the name; if this search fails, Python aborts the code);
- second, Python checks if the function’s requirements for the number of arguments allows you to invoke the function in this way (e.g., if a specific function demands exactly two arguments, any invocation delivering only one argument will be considered erroneous, and will abort the code’s execution);
- third, Python leaves your code for a moment and jumps into the function you want to invoke; of course, it takes your argument(s) too and passes it/them to the function;
- fourth, the function executes its code, causes the desired effect (if any), evaluates the desired result(s) (if any) and finishes its task;
- finally, Python returns to your code (to the place just after the invocation) and resumes its execution.

#### 1.1.6 The `print()` function
Three important questions have to be answered as soon as possible:
1. What is the effect the `print()` function causes?
The effect is very useful and very spectacular. The function takes its arguments (it may accept more than one argument and may also accept less than one argument) converts them into human-readable form if needed (as you may suspect, strings don’t require this action, as the string is already readable) and send the resulting data to the output device (usually the console); in other words, anything you put into the `print()` function will appear on your screen. No wonder then, that from now on, you’ll utilize `print()` very intensively to see the results of your operations and evaluations.
2. What arguments does `print()` expect? 
Any. We’ll show you soon that `print()` is able to operate with virtually all types of data offered by Python. Strings, numbers, characters, logical values, objects – any of these may be successfully passed to `print()`.
3. What value does the `print()` function evaluate?

None. Its effect is enough. `print()` does not evaluate anything.

#### 1.1.7 The `print()` function
You already know that this program contains one function invocation. In turn, the function invocation is one of the possible kinds of Python instruction. Ergo, this program consists of just one instruction.\
Of course, any complex program usually contains many more instructions than one. The question is: how do you couple more than one instruction into the Python code?\
Python’s syntax is quite specific in this area. Unlike most programming languages, Python requires that there cannot be more than one instruction in a line.\
A line can be empty (i.e., it may contain no instruction at all) but it must not contain two, three or more instructions. This is strictly prohibited.\
Note: Python makes one exception to this rule – it allows one instruction to spread across more than one line (which may be helpful when your code contains complex constructions).\
Let’s expand the code a bit. This is how it looks now →
```py
print("Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?")
print("I've been to London to look at the queen.")
```
Run it and note what you see in the console. 

#### 1.1.8 The `print()` function
Your Python console should now look like this →
```
Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?
I've been to London to look at the queen. 
```
This is a good opportunity to make some observations:
- the program invokes the `print()` function twice, and you can see two separate lines in the console – this means that `print()` begins its output from a new line each time it starts its execution; you can change this behavior, but you can also use it to your advantage;
- each `print()` invocation contains a different string, as its argument and the console content reflects it – this means that the instructions in the code are executed in the same order in which they have been placed in the source file; no next instruction is executed until the previous one is completed (there are some exceptions to this rule, but you can ignore them for now)

#### 1.1.9 The `print()` function
We’ve changed the example a bit – we’ve added one empty `print()` function invocation. We call it empty because we haven’t delivered any arguments to the function →
```py
print("Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?")
print()
print("I've been to London to look at the queen.")
```
Follow the example and make the same amendment in your editor window (don’t forget about the parentheses).\
Run it.\
What happens?

#### 1.1.10 The `print()` function
If everything goes right, you should see something like this →
```
Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been? 

I've been to London to look at the queen. 
```
As you can see, the empty `print()` invocation is not as empty as you may have expected – it does output an empty line, or (this interpretation is also correct) its output is just a newline.\
This is not the only way to produce a newline in the output console. We’re now going to show you another way.

#### 1.1.11 The `print()` function
We’ve modified the code again. Look at it carefully →
```py
print("Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?")
print()
print("I've been to London to look at the queen.")
```
There are two very subtle changes – we’ve inserted a strange pair of characters inside the rhyme. They look like this:
```
\n
```
Interestingly, while you can see two characters, Python sees one.\
The backslash (\) has a very special meaning when used inside strings – this is called the escape character.\
The word escape should be understood specifically – it means that the series of characters in the string escapes for the moment (a very short moment) to introduce a special inclusion.\
In other words, the backslash doesn’t mean anything in itself, but is only a kind of announcement, that the next character after the backslash has a different meaning too.\The letter n placed after the backslash comes from the word newline.\
Both the backslash and the n form a special symbol named a newline character, which urges the console to start a new output line.\
This convention has two important consequences:
1. if you want to put just one backslash inside a string, don’t forget its escaping nature – you have to double it, e.g., such an invocation will cause an error:
```py
print("\")
```
while this one won’t:
```py
print("\\")
```
2. not all escape pairs (the backslash coupled with another character) mean something.

Run the code. 

#### 1.1.13 The `print()` function
This is what we’re going to test now →
```py
print("Pussy cat,"," pussy cat, ","where have you been?")
```
There is one `print()` function invocation, but it contains three arguments. All of them are strings.\
The arguments are separated by commas. We’ve surrounded them with spaces to make them more visible, but it’s not really necessary, and we won’t be doing it anymore.\
In this case, the commas separating the arguments play a completely different role than the comma inside the string. The former is a part of Python’s syntax, the latter is intended to be shown in the console.\
If you look at the code again, you’ll see that there are no spaces inside the strings.\
Run the code and see what happens.

#### 1.1.14 The `print()` function 
Your console should now be showing the following text →
```
Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?
```
The spaces, removed from the strings, have appeared again.\
Can you explain why?\
Two conclusions emerge from this example:
- a print() function invoked with more than one argument outputs them all on one line;
- the print() function puts a space between the outputted arguments on its own initiative.

#### 1.1.14 The `print()` function 
Your console should now be showing the following text →
```
Pussy cat, pussy cat where have you been?
```
The spaces, removed from the strings, have appeared again.\
Can you explain why?\
Two conclusions emerge from this example:
- a print() function invoked with more than one argument outputs them all on one line;
- the print() function puts a space between the outputted arguments on its own initiative.

#### 1.1.15 The `print()` function
Now that you know a bit about print() function customs, we’re going to show you how to change them.\
You should be able to predict this output without running the code.\
The way in which we are passing the arguments into the print() function is the most common in Python, and is called the positional way (this name comes from the fact that the meaning of the argument is dictated by its position, e.g., the second argument will be outputted after the first, not the other way round).\
Python offers another mechanism for the passing of arguments, which can be helpful when you want to convince the print() function to change its behavior a bit.\
We aren’t going to explain it in depth right now. We plan to do this when we talk about functions. For now, we simply want to show you how it works. Feel free to use it in your own programs.\
The mechanism is called **keyword arguments**. The name stems from the fact that the meaning of these arguments is taken not from its location (position) but from the special word (keyword) used to identify them.\
The print() function has two keyword arguments that you can use for your purposes. The first of them is named end.\

#### 1.1.16 The `print()` function
To the side, you can see a very simple example of using a keyword argument →
```py
print("My name is","Python",end=" ")
print("Monty Python")
```
In order to use it, it is necessary to know some rules:
- a keyword argument consists of three elements: a keyword identifying the argument (end here); an equal sign (=); and a value assigned to that argument;
- any keyword arguments have to be put after the last positional argument (this is very important)

In our example, we have made use of the end keyword argument, and set it to a string containing one space.\
Run the code to see how it works.

#### 1.1.17 The `print()` function
The output looks as follows now →
```
My name is Python Monty Python
```
As you can see, the end keyword argument determines the characters the print() function sends to the output once it reaches the end of its positional arguments.\
The default behavior reflects the situation where the end keyword argument is implicitly used in the following way:
```
end="\n"
```
And now it’s time to try something more difficult.

#### 1.1.18 The `print()` function
If you look carefully, you’ll see that we’ve used the end argument, but the string assigned to is empty (it contains no characters at all) →
```py
print("My name is ",end="")
print("Monty Python")
```
What will happen now?\
Run the program to find out.

#### 1.1.19 The `print()` function
As the end argument has been set to nothing, the print() function outputs nothing too, once its positional arguments have been exhausted.\
The output looks like this →
```
My name is Monty Python
```
Note: no newlines have been sent to the output.\
The string assigned to the end keyword argument can be of any length. Experiment with it if you want.

#### 1.1.20 The `print()` function
We’ve said previously that the print() function separates its outputted arguments with spaces. This behavior can be changed, too.  \
The keyword argument that can do this is named sep (like separator).  \
Look at the example →
```py
print("My","name","is","Monty","Python",sep="-")
```

#### 1.1.21 The `print()` function
The sep argument delivers the following results →
```
My-name-is-Monty-Python
```
The print() function uses a dash, instead of a space, to separate the outputted arguments.\
Note: the sep argument’s value may be an empty string, too. Try it for yourself.

#### 1.1.22 The `print()` function
Both keyword arguments may be mixed in one invocation, just like here →
```py
print("My","name","is",sep="_",end="*")
print("Monty","Python",sep="*",end="*\n")
```
The example doesn’t make much sense, but it visibly presents the interactions between `end` and `sep`.\
Can you predict the output?

#### 1.1.23 The `print()` function
This is how it looks now →
```
My_name_is*Monty*Python*
```
Now that you understand the `print()` function, you’re ready to consider how to store and process data in Python.\
Without `print()`, you wouldn’t be able to see any results.

#### 1.2.1 Literals – the data in itself
Now that you have a little knowledge of some of the powerful features offered by the print() function, it’s time to learn about some new issues, and one important new term – the literal.\
A literal is data whose values are determined by the literal itself.\
As this is a difficult concept to understand, a good example may be helpful.\
Take a look at the following set of digits:\
```
123
```
Can you guess what value it represents? Of course you can – it’s one hundred twenty three.\
But what about this:
```
c
```
Does it represent any value? Maybe. It can be the symbol of the speed of light, for example. It also can be the constant of integration. Or even the length of a hypotenuse in the sense of a Pythagorean theorem. There are many possibilities.\
You cannot choose the right one without some additional knowledge.\
And this is the clue – 123 is a literal, and c is not.\
You use literals to encode data and to put them into your code. We’re now going to show you some conventions you have to obey when using Python.\
Let’s start with a simple experiment – take a look at the snippet →\
```py
print("2")
print(2) 
```
The first line looks familiar. The second seems to be erroneous due to the visible lack of quotes.\
Try to run it.

#### 1.2.2 Literals – the data in itself
If everything went okay, you should now see two identical lines.
```
2
2
```
What happened? What does it mean?
Through this example, you encounter two different types of literals – a string, which you already know, and an integer number, something completely new.\
The print() function presents them in exactly the same way – this example is obvious, as their human-readable representation is also the same. Internally, in the computer’s memory, these two values are stored in completely different ways – the string exists as just a string – a series of letters.\
The number is converted into machine representation (a set of bits). The print() function is able to show them both in a form readable to humans.\
We’re now going to be spending some time discussing numeric literals and their internal life.\

#### 1.2.3. Literals – integers
You may already know a little about how computers perform calculations on numbers. Perhaps you’ve heard of the binary system, and know that it’s the system computers use for storing numbers, and that they can perform any operation upon them.\
We won’t explore the intricacies of positional numeral systems here, but we’ll say that the numbers handled by modern computers are of two types:\
- integers, that is, those which are devoid of the fractional part;
- and floating-point numbers (or simply floats), that contain (or are able to contain) the fractional part.
This definition is not entirely accurate, but quite sufficient for now. The distinction is very important, and the boundary between these two types of numbers is very strict. Both of these kinds of numbers differ significantly in how they’re stored in a computer memory and in the range of acceptable values.\
The characteristic of the numeric value which determines its kind, range, and application, is called the type.\
If you encode a literal and place it inside Python code, the form of the literal determines the representation (type) Python will use to store it in the memory.\
For now, let’s leave the floating-point numbers aside (we’ll come back to them soon) and consider the question of how Python recognizes integers.\
The process is almost like how you would write them with a pencil on paper – it’s simply a string of digits that make up the number. But there’s a reservation – you must not interject any characters that are not digits inside the number.\
Take, for example, the number eleven million one hundred and eleven thousand one hundred and eleven. If you took a pencil in your hand right now, you would write the number like this:\
```
11,111,111
```
or like this:
```
11.111.111
```
or even like this:
```
11 111 111
```
It’s clear that this provision makes it easier to read, especially when the number consists of many digits. However, Python doesn’t accept things like these. It’s prohibited. What Python does allow, though, is the use of underscores in numeric literals.\
Therefore, you can write this number as follows →
```
11111111
11_111_111
```

#### 1.2.4 Literals – integers
How do we code negative numbers in Python? As usual – by adding a minus. You can write →
```
-11111111
```

#### 1.2.5 Literals – integers
Positive numbers do not need to be preceded by the plus sign, but it’s permissible, if you wish to do it.\
The following lines describe the same number →
```
+11111111
11111111
```

#### 1.2.6 Literals – integers
There are two additional conventions in Python that are unknown to the world of mathematics. The first allows us to use numbers in an octal representation.\
If an integer number is preceded by an 0O or 0o prefix (zero-o), it will be treated as an octal value. This means that the number must contain digits taken from the [0..7] range only.\
`0o123` is an octal number with a (decimal) value equal to 83.\
The print() function does the conversion automatically – try this →
```
print(0o123)
```

#### 1.2.7 Literals – integers
The second allows us to use hexadecimal numbers. Such numbers should be preceded by the prefix 0x or 0X (zero-x).\
0x123 is a hexadecimal number with a (decimal) value equal to 291. The print() function can manage these values too →\
```py
print(0x123)
```

#### 1.2.8 Literals – floats
Now it’s time to talk about another type, which is designed to represent and to store the numbers that (as a mathematician would say) have a non-empty decimal fraction.\
They are the numbers that have (or may have) a fractional part after the decimal point, and although such a definition is very poor, it’s certainly sufficient for what we wish to discuss.\
Whenever we use a term like two and a half or minus zero point four, we think of numbers which the computer considers floating numbers →\
```
2.5
0.4
```

#### 1.2.9 Literals – floats
Note: two and a half looks normal when you write it in a program, although if your native language prefers to use a comma instead of a point in the number, you should ensure that your number doesn’t contain any commas at all.\
Python will not accept that, or (in very rare but possible cases) may misunderstand your intentions, as the comma itself has its own reserved meaning in Python.\
If you want to use just a value of two and a half, you should write it as shown to the side. Note once again – there is a point between 2 and 5 – not a comma.\
```
2.5
```

#### 1.2.10 Literals – floats
As you can probably imagine, the value of zero point four could be written in Python as 0.4\
But don’t forget this simple rule – you can omit zero when it is the only digit in front of or after the decimal point.\
In essence, you can write the value 0.4 as →\
```
.4
```
 
#### 1.2.11 Literals – floats
For example: the value of 4.0 could be written as →
```
4.
```
This will change neither its type nor its value.\
Note: the decimal point is essentially important in recognizing floating-point numbers in Python.\
Look at these two numbers:\
```
4
4.0
```
You may think that they are exactly the same, but Python sees them in a completely different way.
- 4 is an integer number
- 4.0 is a floating-point number

The point is what makes a float.

#### 1.2.12 Literals – floats
But it’s not only points that make a float. You can also use the letter e.\
When you want to use any numbers that are very large or very small, you can use scientific notation.\
Take, for example, the speed of light, expressed in meters per second. Written directly it would look like this:\
```
300000000
```
To avoid writing out so many zeros, physics textbooks use an abbreviated form, which you have probably already seen:
```
3 × 108
```
It reads: three times ten to the power of eight\
In Python, the same effect is achieved in a slightly different way – take a look:
```
3E8
```
The letter E (you can also use the lower-case letter e – it comes from the word exponent) is a concise record of the phrase times ten to the power of.\
Note:
- the exponent (the value after the E) has to be an integer;
- the base (the value in front of the E) may be an integer.

#### 1.2.13 Literals – floats
Let’s see how this convention is used to record numbers that are very small (in the sense of their absolute value, which is close to zero).\
A physical constant called Planck’s constant (and denoted as h), according to the textbooks, has the value of\
```
6.62607 × 10−34
```
If you would like to use it in a program, you should write it this way →
```py
6.62607E-34
```
 
#### 1.2.14 Literals – floats
Note: the fact that you’ve chosen one of the possible forms of coding float values doesn’t mean that Python will present it the same way.\
Python may sometimes choose different notation than you.\
For example, let’s say you’ve decided to use the following float literal:
```
0.0000000000000000000001
```
When you run this literal through Python:
```py
print(0.0000000000000000000001)
```
this is the result →
```
1e-22
```
Python always chooses the more economical form of the number’s presentation, and you should take this into consideration when creating literals.

#### 1.2.15 Literals – strings
Strings are used when you need to process text (like names of all kinds, addresses, novels, etc.), not numbers.\
You already know a bit about them, e.g., that strings need quotes the way floats need points.\
This is a very typical string →\
```
"I am a string"
```

#### 1.2.16 Literals – strings
However, there is a catch.\
The catch is how to encode a quote inside a string which is already delimited by quotes.\
Let’s assume that we want to print a very simple message saying →\
```
I like "Monty Python"
```
How do we do it without generating an error?

#### 1.2.17 Literals – strings
There are two possible solutions.\
The first is based on the concept we already know of the escape character, which you should remember is played by the backslash.\
The backslash can escape quotes too. A quote preceded by a backslash changes its meaning – it’s not a delimiter, but just a quote.\
This will work as intended →
```py
print("I like \"Monty Python\"")
```
Note: there are two escaped quotes inside the string – can you see them both?

#### 1.2.18 Literals – strings
The second solution may be a bit surprising.\
Python can use an apostrophe instead of a quote. Either of these characters may delimit strings, but you must be consistent.\
If you open a string with a quote, you have to close it with a quote.\
If you start a string with an apostrophe, you have to end it with an apostrophe.\
This example will work too →
```py
print('I like "Monty Python"')
```
Note: you don’t need to do any escaping here.

#### 1.2.19 Literals – strings
Now, the next question is how do you embed an apostrophe into a string placed between apostrophes?\
You should already know the answer, or to be precise, two possible answers.\
Try to write a string containing the following message:\
```
I'm Monty Python
```

#### 1.2.20 Literals – strings
Here are the answers →
```py
print('I\'m Monty Python')
print("I'm Monty Python")
```
As you can see, the backslash is a very powerful tool – it can escape not only quotes, but also apostrophes.

#### 1.2.21 Literals – strings
We’ve shown it already, but we want to emphasize this phenomenon once more – a string can be empty – it may contain no characters at all.\
An empty string still remains a string.
```py
''
""
```

#### 1.2.22 Literals – Boolean values
To conclude with Python’s literals, there are two additional ones.\
They’re not as obvious as any of the previous ones, as they’re used to represent a very abstract value – truthfulness.\
Each time you ask Python if one number is greater than another, the question results in the creation of some specific data – a Boolean value.\
The name comes from George Boole (1815–1864), the author of the fundamental work, The Laws of Thought, which contains the definition of Boolean algebra – a part of algebra which makes use of only two distinct values: true and false, denoted as 1 and 0.\
A programmer writes a program, and the program asks questions. Python executes the program, and provides the answers. The program must be able to react according to the received answers.\
Fortunately, computers know only two kinds of answers: yes, this is true or no, this is false. You’ll never get a response like I don’t know or probably yes, but I don’t know for sure.\
Python, then, is a binary reptile.\
These two Boolean values have strict denotations in Python →
```py
True
False
```
You cannot change anything – you have to take these symbols as they are, including case-sensitivity.

#### 1.3.1 Operators – data manipulation tools
Now, we’re going to show you a completely new side of the print() function. You already know that the function is able to show you the values of the literals passed to it by arguments.\
In fact, it can do something more. Take a look at the snippet →
```py
print(2+2)
```
Start IDLE, create a new source file, copy our example and press the F5 key.\
You should see the number four.\
Without taking this too seriously, you’ve just discovered that Python can be used as a calculator.\
Not a very handy one, and definitely not a pocket one, but a calculator nonetheless.\
Taking it more seriously, we are now entering the province of operators and expressions.

#### 1.3.2 Operators – data manipulation tools
An operator is a symbol of the programming language, which is able to operate on the values.\
For example, just as in arithmetic, the + (plus) sign is the operator which is able to add two numbers, giving the result of the addition.\
Not all Python operators are as obvious as the plus sign, though, so let’s go through some of the operators available in Python, and we’ll explain which rules govern their use, and how to interpret the operations they perform.\
We’ll begin with the operators which are associated with the most widely recognizable arithmetic operations.\
The order of their appearance is not accidental. We’ll talk more about it once we’ve gone through them all.\
Data and operators when connected together form expressions. The simplest expression is a literal itself.

#### 1.3.3 Arithmetic operators – exponentiation
A `**` (double asterisk) sign is an exponentiation (power) operator.\
Its left argument is the base, its right, the exponent.\
Classical mathematics prefers notation with superscripts, just like this:\
2<sup>3</sup>
Pure text editors don’t accept that, so Python uses ** instead:\
```py
2**3
```
Take a look at our example →
```py
print(2 ** 3)
print(2 ** 3.)
print(2. ** 3)
print(2. ** 3.)
```
Note: we’ve surrounded the double asterisks with spaces in our example.\
It’s not compulsory, but it improves the readability of the code.\
The example shows a very important feature of virtually all Python numerical operators.\
Run the code and look carefully at the results it produces.\
Can you see any regularity here?

#### 1.3.4 Arithmetic operators – exponentiation
The results look like this →
```
8
8.0
8.0
8.0
```
It’s possible to formulate the following rules based on this result:
- when both ** arguments are integers, the result is an integer, too;
- when at least one ** argument is a float, the result is a float, too.

This is an important distinction to remember.

#### 1.3.5 Arithmetic operators – multiplication
An `*` (asterisk) sign is a multiplication operator.\
Run the code and check if our integer vs float rule is still working.
```py
print(2 * 3)
print(2 * 3.)
print(2. * 3)
print(2. * 3.)
```

#### 1.3.6 Arithmetic operators – multiplication
```
6
6.0
6.0
6.0
```
Yes, it works.

#### 1.3.7 Arithmetic operators – division 
A / (slash) sign is a divisional operator. The value in front of the slash is a dividend, the value behind the slash, a divisor.\
Run the program and analyze the results.\
```py
print(6/3)
print(6/3.)
print(6./3)
print(6./3.)
```

#### 1.3.8 Arithmetic operators – division
You should see that there is an exception to the rule.
The result produced by the division operator is always a float, regardless of whether or not the result seems to be a float at first glance:
```
1 / 2
```
or if it looks like a pure integer:
```
2 / 1
```
Is this a problem? Yes, it is. It happens sometimes that you really need a division that provides an integer value, not a float. Fortunately, Python can help you with that.

#### 1.3.9 Arithmetic operators – integer division
A `//` (double slash) sign is an integer divisional operator. It differs from the standard `/` operator in two details:
- its result lacks the fractional part – it’s absent (for integers), or is always equal to zero (for floats); this means that the results are always rounded;
- it conforms to the integer vs float rule.

Run the example and see the results.
```py
print(6 // 3)
print(6 // 3.)
print(6. // 3)
print(6. // 3.)
```

#### 1.3.10 Arithmetic operators – integer division
Here they are →
```
2
2.0
2.0
2.0
```
As you can see, integer by integer division gives an integer result. All other cases produce floats. Let’s do some more advanced tests.

#### 1.3.11 Arithmetic operators – integer division
Look at the examples →
```py
print(6 // 4)
print(6. // 4)
```
Imagine that we used `/` instead of `//` – could you predict the results? Yes, it would be 1.5 in both cases. That’s clear. But what results should we expect with // division?

#### 1.3.12 Operators – integer division
This is what we get →
```
1
1.0
```
Two ones – one integer and one float.
The result of integer division is always **rounded to the nearest integer** value that is less than the real (not rounded) result.
This is very important – **rounding always goes to the lesser integer**.

#### 1.3.13 Arithmetic operators – integer division
Look at the code and try to predict the results →
```py
print(-6 // 4)
print(6. // -4)
```
Note: some of the values are negative. This will obviously affect the result.
But how?

#### 1.3.14 Arithmetic operators – integer division
Here is the result →
```
-2
-2.0
```
There are two negative twos.
The real (not rounded) result is −1.5 in both cases. The results are the subjects of rounding. The rounding goes toward the lesser integer value, and the lesser integer value is −2.

#### 1.3.15 Operators – remainder
The next operator is quite a peculiar one, because it has no equivalent among traditional arithmetic operators.
Its graphical representation in Python is the `%` (percent) sign, which may look a bit confusing.
Try to think of it as of a slash (division operator) accompanied by two funny little circles.
```py
print(14 % 4)
```
The result of the operator is a remainder left after the integer division.
In other words, it’s the value left over after dividing one value by another to produce an integer quotient.
Note: the operator is sometimes called modulo in other programming languages.
Take a look at the snippet – try to predict its result.

#### 1.3.16 Operators – remainder
The result is two →
```
2
```
This is why:
- `14 // 4` gives `3` → this is the integer quotient;
- `3 * 4` gives `12` → as a result of quotient and divisor multiplication;
- `14 – 12` gives `2` → this is the remainder.

#### 1.3.17 Operators – remainder
This example is somewhat more complicated →
```py
print(12 % 4.5)
```
What is the result?

#### 1.3.18 Operators – remainder
It’s 3.0 →
```
3.0
```
Note: not 3 but 3.0 (the rule still works).
- `12 // 4.5` gives `2.0`
- `2.0 * 4.5` gives `9.0`
- `12 – 9.0` gives `3.0`

#### 1.3.19 Operators – how not to divide?
As you probably know, division by zero doesn’t work.
Do not try to:
- perform a division by zero
- perform an integer division by zero
- find a remainder of a division by zero

#### 1.3.20 Operators – addition
The addition operator is the `+` (plus) sign, which is fully in line with mathematical standards.
Again, take a look at the snippet of the program →
```py
print(-4 + 4)
print(-4. + 8)
```
The result should be nothing surprising.

#### 1.3.21 Operators – addition
These are the expected results →
```
0
4.0
```

#### 1.3.22 Operators – subtraction
The subtraction operator is obviously the `–` (minus) sign, although you should note that this operator also has another meaning – it can change the sign of a number.
This is a great opportunity to present a very important distinction between **unary** and **binary** operators.\
In subtracting applications, the minus operator expects two arguments: the left (a **minuend** in arithmetical terms) and right (a **subtrahend**).\
For this reason, the subtraction operator is considered to be one of the **binary** operators, just like the addition, multiplication and division operators.\
But the minus operator may be used in a different way – take a look at the last line of the snippet.
```py
print(-4 - 4)
print(4. - 8)
print(-1.1)
```
By the way: there is also a unary + operator. You can use it like this:
```py
print(+2)
```
The operator preserves the sign of its only argument – the right one. Although such a construction is syntactically correct, using it doesn’t make much sense, and it would be hard to find a good rationale for doing so. Take a look at this snippet of the program – can you guess its output?

#### 1.3.23 Operators – subtraction
Here it is →
```
-8
-4.0
-1.1
```

#### 1.3.24 Operators and their priorities
So far, we’ve treated each operator as if it had no connection with the others. Obviously, such an ideal and simple situation is a rarity in real programming.
Also, you will very often find more than one operator in one expression, and then this presumption is no longer so obvious.\
Consider the following expression →
```
2 + 3 * 5
```
You probably remember from school that **multiplications precede additions**.
You surely remember that you should first multiply 3 by 5 and, keeping the 15 in your memory, then add it to 2, thus getting the result of 17.
The phenomenon that causes some operators to act before others is known as the **hierarchy of priorities**.
Python precisely defines the priorities of all operators, and assumes that operators of a larger (higher) priority perform their operations before the operators of a lower priority.
So, if you know that `*` has a higher priority than `+`, the computation of the final result should be obvious.

#### 1.3.25 Operators and their bindings
The binding of the operator determines the order of computations performed by some operators with equal priority, put side by side in one expression.\
Most of Python’s operators have **left-sided binding**, which means that the calculation of the expression is conducted from left to right.\
This simple example will show you how it works. Take a look →
```py
print(9 % 6 % 2)
```
There are two possible ways of evaluating this expression:
- from left to right: first 9 % 6 gives 3, and then 3 % 2 gives 1
- from right to left: first 6 % 2 gives 0, and then 9 % 0 causes a fatal error.

Try to run the example and see what you get.

#### 1.3.26 Operators and their bindings
The result should be 1. This operator has **left-sided binding**.\
But there’s one interesting exception.

#### 1.3.27 Operators and their bindings
Repeat the experiment, but now with exponentiation.\
Use this snippet of code →
```py
print(2 ** 2 ** 3)
```
The two possible results are:
- `2 ** 2` → `4`; `4 ** 3` → `64`
- `2 ** 3` → `8`; `2 ** 8` → `256`

Run the code.

#### 1.3.28 Operators and their bindings
The result clearly shows that the **exponentiation operator uses right-sided binding**. This is worth remembering.
```
256
```

#### 1.3.29 List of priorities
Since you’re new to Python operators, we don’t want to present the complete list of operator priorities right now.\
Instead, we’ll show you its truncated form, and we’ll expand it consistently as we introduce new operators.\
The table now looks as follows →

--- | ---
`+` `-` | unary
`**`
`*` `/` `%`
`+` `-` | binary

Note: we’ve enumerated the operators in order from the highest to the lowest priorities.

#### 1.3.30 Operators and their bindings
Try to work through the following expression →
```py
print(2 * 3 % 5)
```
Both operators (`*` and `%`) have the same priority, so the result can be guessed only when you know the binding direction.

#### 1.3.31 Operators and bindings
The result is 1

#### 1.3.32 Operators vs parentheses
Of course, you’re always allowed to use parentheses, which can change the natural order of a calculation. In accordance with the arithmetic rules, subexpressions in parentheses are always calculated first. You can use as many parentheses as you need, and they’re often used to improve the readability of an expression, even if they don’t change the order of the operations. An example of an expression with multiple parentheses is here →
```py
print(5 * ((25 % 13) + 100) / (2 * 13) // 2)
```
Try to compute the value that’s printed to the console.

#### 1.3.33 Operators vs parentheses
The result is `10.0`

#### 1.4.1 Variables – data-shaped boxes
It seems fairly obvious that Python should allow you to encode literals carrying number and text values.\
You already know that you can do some arithmetic operations with these numbers: add, subtract, etc. You’ll be doing that many times.\
But it’s quite a normal question to ask how to store the results of these operations, in order to use them in other operations, and so on.\
How do you save the intermediate results, and use them again to produce subsequent ones?\
Python will help you with that. It offers special “boxes” (containers) for that purpose, and these boxes are called variables – the name itself suggests that the content of these containers can be varied in (almost) any way.\
What does every Python variable have?\
- a name
- a value (the content of the container)

Let’s start with the issues related to a variable’s name. Variables do not appear in a program automatically.
As developer, you must decide how many and which variables to use in your programs. You must also name them.\
If you want to give a name to a variable, you must follow some strict rules:
- the name of the variable must be composed of upper-case or lower-case letters, digits, and the character `_` (underscore)
- the name of the variable must begin with a letter;
- the underscore character is a letter;
- upper- and lower-case letters are treated as different (a little differently than in the real world – Alice and ALICE are the same first names, but in Python they are two different variable names, and consequently, two different variables);
- the name of the variable must not be any of Python’s reserved words (the keywords – we’ll explain more about this soon).

Note that the same restrictions apply to function names.
Python does not impose restrictions on the length of variable names, but that doesn’t mean that long a variable name is always better than a short one.
Here are some correct, but not always convenient variable names:
```
MyVariable
i
t34
Exchange_Rate
counter
DaysToChristmas
TheNameOfAVariableWhichIsSoLongThatYouWillNotBeAbleToWriteItWithoutMistakes
_
```
Moreover, Python lets you use not only Latin letters but also characters specific to languages that use other alphabets.\
These variable names are also correct:
```
Adiós_Señora
sûr_la_mer
Einbahnstraße
переменная
```
And now for some incorrect names:
```
10t (does not begin with a letter)
Exchange Rate (contains a space)
```

#### 1.4.2 Variables – data-shaped boxes
Take a look at the right side of the screen – there is a list of words that play a very special role in every Python program.
They are called **keywords** or (more precisely) **reserved keywords**. They are reserved because you mustn’t use them as names: neither for your variables, nor functions, nor any other named entities you want to create.
The meaning of the reserved word is predefined, and mustn’t be changed in any way.
Fortunately, due to the fact that Python is case-sensitive, you can modify any of these words by changing the case of any letter, thus creating a new word, which is not reserved anymore.\
For example – you can’t name your variable like this:
```py
import
```
You mustn’t have a variable named in such a way – it is prohibited. But you can do this instead:
```
Import
```
These words might be a mystery to you now, but you’ll soon learn the meaning of them.

#### 1.4.3 Variables – data-shaped boxes
What can you put inside a variable?
Anything.\
You can use a variable to store any value of any of the already presented kinds, and many more of the ones we haven’t shown you yet.
The value of a variable is what you have put into it. It can vary as often as you need or want. It can be an integer one moment, and a float a moment later, eventually becoming a string.
Let’s talk now about two important things – how variables are created, and how to put values inside them (or rather – how to give them values).
A variable comes into existence as a result of assigning a value to it.
If you assign any value to a nonexistent variable, the variable will be automatically created. You don’t need to do anything else.
The creation (or otherwise – its syntax) is extremely simple: just use the name of the desired variable, then the equal sign (=) and the value you want to put into the variable.

#### 1.4.4 Variables – data-shaped boxes
Take a look at the snippet →
```py
var=1
print(var)
```
It consists of two simple instructions.
- The first of them creates a variable named var, and assigns a literal with an integer value equal to 1.
- The second prints the value of the newly created variable to the console.

Note: `print()` has yet another side to it – it can handle variables too.
Run the code and check the result.

#### 1.4.5 Variables – data-shaped boxes
You’re allowed to use as many variable declarations as you need to achieve your goal, like this →
```py
var=1
account_balance=1000.0
ClientName='John Doe'
print(var,account_balance,ClientName)
```

#### 1.4.6 Variables – data-shaped boxes
You’re not allowed to use a variable which doesn’t exist (in other words, a variable that was not given a value).
This example will cause an error.
We’ve tried to use a variable named `Var`, which doesn’t have any value (note: `var` and `Var` are different entities, and have nothing in common as far as Python’s concerned).
```py
var=1
print(Var)
```

#### 1.4.7 Variables – data-shaped boxes
How do you assign a new value to an already created variable?
In the same way.
You just need to use the equal sign.
The equal sign is in fact an assignment operator.
Although this may sound strange, the operator has a simple syntax and unambiguous interpretation.
It assigns the value of its right argument to the left, while the right argument may be an arbitrarily complex expression involving literals, operators and already defined variables.\
Just like this →
```py
var=1
print(var)
var=var+1
print(var)
```
The code sends two lines to the console:
```
1
2
```
The first line of the snippet creates a new variable named `var` and assigns 1 to it.
The statement reads: assign a value of 1 to a variable named `var`.
We can say it shorter: assign 1 to `var`.
Some prefer to read such a statement as: `var` becomes 1.
The third line assigns the same variable with the new value taken from the variable itself, summed with 1.
Seeing a record like that, a mathematician would probably protest – no value may be equal to itself plus one. This is a contradiction.
But Python treats the sign = not as equal to, but as assign a value.
So how do you read such a record in the program?\
Take the current value of the variable var, add 1 to it and store the result in the variable `var`.
In effect, the value of variable `var` has been incremented by one, which has nothing to do with comparing the variable with any value.

#### 1.4.8 Variables – data-shaped boxes
In this case, the new value of the variable var will be the result of adding 100 to 200.
```py
var = 100 + 200
```

#### 1.4.9 Variables – data-shaped boxes
Now you should be able to construct a short program solving simple mathematical problems.
For example, the following code evaluates the length of the hypotenuse using the Pythagorean theorem →
```py
a = 3.0
b = 4.0
c = (a ** 2 + b ** 2) ** 0.5
print('c =',c)
```
Note: make use of the `**` operator to evaluate the square root as:
... 
The code outputs:
```
c = 5.0
```

#### 1.4.10 Comments on comments
You may want to put in a few words addressed not to Python but to humans, usually to explain to other readers of the code how the tricks used in the code work, or the meanings of the variables, and eventually, in order to keep stored information on who the author is and when the program was written.
A remark inserted into the program, which is omitted at runtime, is called a **comment**.
How do you leave this kind of comment in the source code? It has to be done in a way that won’t force Python to interpret it as part of the code.\
Whenever Python encounters a comment in your program, the comment is completely transparent to it – from Python’s point of view, this is only one space (regardless of how long the real comment is).
In Python, a comment is a piece of text that begins with a # (hash) sign and extends to the end of the line.
If you want a comment that spans several lines, you have to put a hash in front of them all.\
Just like here →
```py
# this program evaluates the hypotenuse (c)
# a and b are the lengths of the legs
a = 3.0
b = 4.0
c = (a ** 2 + b ** 2) ** 0.5 # we use ** instead of square root
print('c =',c)
```
Good, responsible developers describe each important piece of code, e.g., explaining the role of the variables; although it must be stated that the best way of commenting variables is to name them in an unambiguous manner.\
For example, if a particular variable is designed to store an area of some unique square, the name:
```
SquareArea
```
will obviously be better than:
```
AuntJane
```
We say that the first name is **self-commenting**.\
Comments may be useful in another respect – you can use them to mark a piece of code that currently isn’t needed for whatever reason.
This is often done during the testing of a program, in order to isolate the place where an error might be hidden.

#### 1.4.11 Shortcut operators
It’s time for the next set of operators that make a developer’s life easier.
Very often, we want to use one and the same variable both to the right and left sides of the = operator.
For example, if we need to calculate a series of successive values of powers of 2, we may use a piece like this →
```py
x = x * 2
```

#### 1.4.12 Shortcut operators
You may use an expression like this if you can’t fall asleep and you’re trying to deal with it using some good, old-fashioned methods →
```py
sheep = sheep + 1
```

#### 1.4.13 Shortcut operators
Python offers you a shortened way of writing operations like these, which can be coded as follows →
```py
x *= 2
sheep +=1
```

#### 1.4.14 Shortcut operators
Let’s try to present a general description for these operations.
If **op** is a two-argument operator (this is a very important condition) and the operator is used in the following context:
```py
variable = variable op expression;
```
It can be simplified and shown as follows:
```py
variable op= expression;
```
Take a look at the examples →

--- | ---
`i = i + 2 * j`           | `i += 2 * j`
`Var = Var / 2`           | `Var /= 2`
`Rem = Rem % 10`          | `Rem %= 10`
`j = j - (i + Var + Rem)` | j -= (i + Var + Rem)
`x = x ** 2`              | `x **= 2`

Make sure that you understand them all.


#### 1.5.1 How to talk to a computer?
We’re now going to introduce you to a completely new function, which seems to be a mirror reflection of the good old `print()` function.
`print()` sends data to the console.
The new function gets data from it.
`print()` has no usable result.
The meaning of the new function is to return a very usable result.
The function is named input().
The name of the function says everything.
The function is able to read data entered by the user and to return the same data to the running program.
The program can manipulate the data, making the code truly interactive.
Virtually all programs read and process data.
A program which doesn’t get a user’s input is a deaf program.

#### 1.5.2 How to talk to a computer?
Take a look at our example →
```py
print("Tell me anything ...")
anything = input()
print("Hm ... ", anything, "... Really?")
```
It shows a very simple case of using the `input()` function.
Note:
- The program prompts the user to input some data from the console (most likely using a keyboard, although it is also possible to input data using voice or image);
- the `input()` function is invoked without arguments (this is the simplest way of using the function); the function will switch the console to input mode; you’ll see a blinking cursor, and you’ll be able to input some keystrokes, finishing off by hitting the Enter key; all the inputted data will be sent to your program through the function’s result;
- note: you need to assign the result to a variable; this is crucial – missing out this step will cause the entered data to be lost;
- then we use the `print()` function to output the data we get, with some additional remarks.

Try to run the code and let the function show you what it can do for you.

#### 1.5.3 How to talk to a computer?
The `input()` function can do something else: it can prompt the user without any help from print().\
We’ve modified our example a bit →
```py
anything = input("Tell me anything ...")
print("Hm ...", anything, "... Really?")
```
Note:
- the `input()` function is invoked with one argument – it’s a string containing a message;
- the message will be displayed on the console before the user is given an opportunity to enter anything;
- `input()` will then do its job.

This variant of the `input()` invocation simplifies the code and makes it clearer.
Try it.

#### 1.5.4 How to talk to a computer?
We’ve said it already, but it must be unambiguously stated once again: the result of the `input()` function is a string.
A string containing all the characters the user enters from the keyboard.
It is not an integer or a float.
This means that you mustn’t use it as an argument of any arithmetic operation, e.g., you aren’t allowed to use this data to square it, divide it by anything, or divide anything by it.
To see for yourself, run the code, enter any number and press Enter.

#### 1.5.5 How to talk to a computer?
Python should have given you the following output →
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "py.py", line 2, in <module>
          something = anything ** 2
TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for ** or pow(): 'str' and 'float'
```
The last line of the sentence explains everything – you tried to apply the ** operator to 'str' (string) accompanied with 'float'.
**This is prohibited.**
This should be obvious – can you predict the value of to be or not to be raised to the power of 2?
We can’t. Python can’t either.

#### 1.5.6 How to talk to a computer?
Have we fallen into a deadlock? Is there a solution to this issue?
Of course there is.
Python offers two simple functions to solve this problem – here they are →
```py
int(string)
float(string)
```
Their names are self-commenting:
- the `int()` function takes one argument (a string) and tries to convert it into an integer; if it fails, the whole program will fail too (there is a workaround for this situation, but we’ll show you this a little later);
- the `float()` function takes one argument and tries to convert it into a float (the rest is the same).

This is very simple and very effective.
Moreover, you can invoke any of the functions by passing the input() results directly to them.
There’s no need to use any variable as an intermediate storage.

#### 1.5.7 How to talk to a computer?
We’ve implemented the idea here →
```py
anything = float(input("Give me a number:"))
something = anything ** 2.0
print(anything, "to the power of 2 is", something)
```
Can you imagine how the string entered by the user flows from input() into print()?
Try to run the modified code. Don’t forget to enter a valid number.
Check some different values, small and big, negative and positive. Zero is a good input, too.

#### 1.5.8 How to talk to a computer?
Having a team consisting of the trio input()–int()­–float() opens up lots of new possibilities.
You’ll eventually be able to write complete programs, accepting data in the form of numbers, processing them and displaying the results.
Of course, these programs will be very primitive and not very usable,as they cannot make decisions, and consequently are not able to react differently to different situations.
This is not really a problem, though; we’ll show you how to overcome it soon.\
Our next example refers to the earlier program to find the length of a hypotenuse. Let’s rewrite it and make it able to read the lengths of the legs from the console.\
This is how it looks now →
```py
lega = float(input("Input first leg length:"))
legb = float(input("Input second leg length:"))
hypo = (lega ** 2 + legb ** 2) ** 0.5
print("Hypotenuse length is", hypo)
```
It asks the user twice for both legs’ lengths, evaluates the hypotenuse and prints the result.
Run the program and try to input some negative values.
The program – unfortunately – doesn’t react to this obvious error.
Let’s ignore this weakness for now. We’ll come back to it soon.

#### 1.5.9 How to talk to a computer?
Note that in the previous program, the hypo variable is used for only one purpose – to save the calculated value between the execution of the adjoining line of code.
As the `print()` function accepts an expression as its argument, you can remove the variable from the code.
Just like this →
```py
lega = float(input("Input first leg length:"))
legb = float(input("Input second leg length:"))
print("Hypotenuse length is",(lega ** 2 + legb ** 2) ** 0.5)
```

#### 1.5.10 String operators
It’s time to return to these two arithmetic operators: `+` `*`
We want to show you that they have a second function. They are able to do something more than just add and multiply.
We’ve seen them in action where their arguments are numbers (floats or integers, it doesn’t matter).
Now we’re going to show you that they can handle strings, too, albeit in a very specific way.

#### 1.5.11 String operators
The `+` (plus) sign, when applied to two strings, becomes a concatenation operator → `string + string`\
It simply concatenates (glues) two strings into one. Of course, like its arithmetic sibling, it can be used more than once in one expression, and in such a context it behaves according to left-sided binding.
In contrast to its arithmetic sibling, the concatenation operator is not commutative (“ab”+“ba” is not the same as “ba”+“ab”).
Don’t forget – if you want the + sign to be a concatenator, not an adder, you must ensure that both its arguments are strings.
You cannot mix types here.

#### 1.5.12 String operators
This simple program shows the `+` sign in its second use →
```py
fnam = input("May I have your first name, please?")
lnam = input("May I have your last name, please?")
print("Thank you.")
print("Your name is " + lname + ". " + fnam + " " + lnam + ".")
```
Note: using `+` to concatenate strings lets you construct the output in a more precise way than with a pure `print()` function, even if enriched with the `end=` and `sep=` keyword arguments.
Try to run it.

#### 1.5.13 String operators
The `*` (asterisk) sign, when applied to a string and number (or a number and string, as it remains commutative in this position) becomes a replication operator →
```py
string * number
number * string
```
It replicates the string the same number of times specified by the number.
For example:
- `"James" * 3` gives `"JamesJamesJames"`
- `3 * "an"` gives `"ananan"`
- `5 * "2"` (or `"2" * 5`) gives `"22222"` (not `10`!)

Note: a number less than or equal to zero produces an empty string.

#### 1.5.14 String operators
This simple program “draws” a rectangle, making use of an old operator in a new role →
```py
print("+" + 10 * "-" + "+")
print(("|" | " " * 10 + "|\n") * 5, end='')
print("+" + 10 * '-' + '+')
```
Note the way in which we’ve used the parentheses in the second line of the code.

#### 1.5.15 String operators
You already know how to use the `int()` and `float()` functions to convert a string into a number.
This type of conversion is not a one-way street. You can also convert a number into a string, which is way easier and safer ‒ this operation is always possible.\
A function capable of doing that is called `str()`→ `str(number)`\
To be honest, it can do much more than just transform numbers into strings, but that can wait for later.

#### 1.5.16 String operators
Here is our “right-angle triangle” program again →
```py
lega = float(input("Input first leg length:"))
legb = float(input("Input second leg length:"))
print("Hypotenuse length is"+str((lega ** 2 + legb ** 2) ** 0.5))
```
We’ve modified it a bit to show you how the str() function works. Thanks to this, we can pass the whole result to the print() function as one string, forgetting about the commas.
You’ve made some serious strides on your way to Python programming.
You already know the basic data types, and a set of fundamental operators. You know how to organize the output and how to get data from the user. These are very strong foundations for Chapter 02.

