[1.1]: #upgrade-and-migration "Install, upgrade and migrate servers and workloads"
[1.2]: #nano-server "Install and configure Nano Server"
[1.3]: #images "Create, manage, and maintain images for deployment"
[2.1]: #disks-and-volumes "Configure disks and volumes"
[2.2]: #server-storage "Implement server storage"
[2.3]: #data-deduplication "Implement data deduplication"
[3.1]: #hyper-v-configuration "Install and configure Hyper-V"
[3.2]: #vm-configuration "Configure virtual machine (VM) settings"
[3.3]: #hyper-v-storage "Configure Hyper-V storage"
[3.4]: #hyper-v-networking "Configure Hyper-V networking"
[4.1]: #container-deployment "Deploy Windows containers"
[4.2]: #container-management "Manage Windows containers"
[5.1]: #high-availability "Implement high availability and disaster recovery options in Hyper-V"
[5.2]: #failover-clustering "Implement failover clustering"
[5.3]: #storage-spaces-direct "Implement Storage Spaces Direct"
[5.4]: #cluster-management "Manage failover clustering"
[5.5]: #moving-cluster-vms "Manage VM movement in clustered nodes"
[5.6]: #nlb "Implement Network Load Balancing"
[6.1]: #maintenance "Maintain server installations"
[6.2]: #monitoring "Monitor server installations"

[Zacker]: https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/certs/70-740.md "Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017."
[n/pwsh]: https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md "Powershell notes"

<!--- CMD commands -->
[Azman.msc]: README.md#azman.msc '```&#10;C:\>Azman.msc&#10;```&#10;Authorization Manager, tool for granting specific privileges to users; deprecated in Windows Server 2012 R2&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 174'
[ddpeval.exe]: README.md#ddpeval.exe '```&#10;C:\>ddpeval.exe&#10;```&#10;Data Deduplication Savings Evaluation Tool that can be used to test a volume to see how much storage savings can result from optimization'
[dism.exe]: README.md#dism.exe '```&#10;C:\>dism.exe&#10;```&#10;"Deployment Image Servicing and Management", enables modification of VHD and Windows Imaging files while they are offline&#10;Sobell, Mark. _Practical Guide to Linux_. 2017.: 70'
[Configure-SMRemoting.exe]: README.md#configure-smremoting.exe '```&#10;C:\>Configure-SMRemoting.exe&#10;```&#10;Enable remote management using Server Manager'
[cmdkey.exe]: README.md#cmdkey.exe '```&#10;C:\>cmdkey.exe&#10;```&#10;Creates, lists, and deletes stored user names and passwords or credentials'

# Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016 (70-740)
## Topics
[**`1`**](#installation)
<code>[1][1.1]&nbsp;[2][1.2]&nbsp;[3][1.3]</code>
[**`2`**](#storage)
<code>[1][2.1]&nbsp;[2][2.2]&nbsp;[3][2.3]</code>
[**`3`**](#hyper-v)
<code>[1][3.1]&nbsp;[2][3.2]&nbsp;[3][3.3]&nbsp;[4][3.4]</code>
[**`4`**](#containers)
<code>[1][4.1]&nbsp;[2][4.2]</code>
[**`5`**](#clusters)
<code>[1][5.1]&nbsp;[2][5.2]&nbsp;[3][5.3]&nbsp;[4][5.4]&nbsp;[5][5.5]&nbsp;[6][5.6]</code>
**`6`**
<code>[1][6.1]&nbsp;[2][6.2]</code>

[servicing channel]: # 'servicing channel&#10;provide a way of separating users into deployment groups for feature and quality updates'
[Semi-Annual Channel]: # 'Semi-Annual Channel&#10;previously "Current Branch for Business (CBB)", servicing channel that receives feature updates twice a year'
[LTSC]: # 'Long Term Servicing Channel (LTSC)&#10;servicing branch with a minimum servicing lifetime of 10 years, designed to be used only for specialized devices such as those that control medical equipment or ATM machines, receiving new feature releases every 2-3 years'

- [Servicing channels][servicing channel]
  - [Semi-Annual Channel][Semi-Annual Channel]
  - [Long Term Servicing Channel][LTSC]

### Installation
#### Upgrade and migration
[Windows Server 2016 Datacenter]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Server 2016 Datacenter&#10;Edition that allows unlimited number of operating system environments or Hyper-V containers and includes Storage Spaces Direct, Storage Replica, shielded VMs, and a new networking stack with additional virtualization options&#10;Intended for large and powerful servers in a highly virtualized environment.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 4'
[Windows Server 2016 Standard]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Server 2016 Standard&#10;Edition that allows for two operating system environments, but lacks the storage and networking features included in Datacenter.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 5'
[Windows Server 2016 Essentials]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Server 2016 Essentials&#10;Edition that is limited to one OSE and a maximum of 25 users and 50 devices and excludes the Server Core installation option&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 5'
[Windows Server 2016 MultiPoint Premium Server]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Server 2016 MultiPoint Premium Server&#10;Academic edition that enables multiple users to access a single server installation&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 5'
[Windows Storage Server 2016]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Storage Server 2016&#10;Bundled as part of a dedicated storage hardware solution&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 5'
[Windows Hyper-V Server 2016]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Hyper-V Server 2016&#10;Free hypervisor-only download that hosts VMs.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 5'

[WDS]: # 'Windows Deployment Services (WDS)&#10;Role included with Windows server 2016 which can deploy disk image files to clients on the network automatically.&#10;Used to deploy operating systems en masse.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 11'

<!-- Datacenter edition features -->
[S2D]: #storage-spaces-direct 'Storage Spaces Direct (S2D)&#10;Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition feature that enables administrators to use relatively inexpensive drive arrays to create high-availability storage solutions, implementing JBOD&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 5'
[Storage Replica]: # 'Storage Replica&#10;Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition feature that provides storage-agnostic, synchronous or asynchronous volume replication between local or remote servers, using SMBv3&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 6'
[shielded virtual machines]: # 'shielded virtual machines&#10;Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition feature that provides VMs with protection from compromised administrators that have access to the Hyper-V host computer by encrypting the VM state and virtual disks&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 6'
[network controller]: # 'network controller&#10;Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition feature that provides a central automation point for network infrastructure configuration, monitoring, and troubleshooting&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 6'


[snap-in]: #upgrade-and-migration 'MMC snap-in&#10;Windows administrative tools&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 25'
[DCOM]: # 'Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM)&#10;used by MMC for remote management&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 25'

<!-- DSC -->
[DSC]: dsc.md 'Desired State Configuration (DSC)&#10;Windows PowerShell feature that uses script files stored on a central server to apply, monitor, and maintain a specific configuration&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 26'
[node block]: #upgrade-and-migration 'node block&#10;component of DSC scripts that specify the names of computers to be configured (i.e. targets)&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 26'
[resource block]: #upgrade-and-migration 'resource block&#10;component of DSC scripts that specify settings or components and the values that configuration script should assign to them&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 26'
[LCM]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Local Configuration Manager (LCM)&#10;engine running on the client system that receives configurations from the DSC server and applies them to the target computer&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 26'
[idempotency]: #upgrade-and-migration 'idempotency&#10;quality of scripts that can be applied repeatedly without generating errors&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 26'
[MOF]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Management Object Format (MOF)&#10;file created for each computer specified in the `Node` block of a DSC script, as well as the associated file format; the actual scripts that are distributed to the DSC clients&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 27'
[Pull Server]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Pull Server&#10;client computers have LCM configured to pull from a Pull Server periodically, checking the local system for compliance&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 27'
[pull architecture]: #upgrade-and-migration 'pull architecture&#10;LCM of client computers creates a scheduled task to retrieve MOF file from a Pull Server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 27'
[clean installation]: #upgrade-and-migration 'clean installation&#10;also "bare-metal installation", installing an OS on a computer that does not already have one&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 6'
[upgrade]: #upgrade-and-migration 'upgrade&#10;installation performed in-place with existing data intact&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 27'
[migration]: #upgrade-and-migration 'migration&#10;clean installation on a new computer with old data transferred over&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 28'

<!-- Activation -->
[MAK Independent]: #upgrade-and-migration 'MAK Independent&#10;each computer using the MAK must perform an individual activation with Microsoft over the Internet or by telephone&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 36'
[MAK Proxy]: #upgrade-and-migration 'MAK Proxy&#10;VMAT collects installation IDs from target computers, activates them all at once, then receives and deploys confirmation IDs from Microsoft back to targets&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 36'
[Windows Server Migration Tools]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Windows Server Migration Tools&#10;Five Windows Powershell cmdlets that enable administrators to migrate certain roles between servers&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[MAK]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Multiple activation key (MAK)&#10;Product key that can be used to activate multiple Windows systems (suitable for small networks).&#10;Two ways to use MAK when activating Windows computers:&#10;  1. **MAK Independent**: Each computer using the MAK must perform an individual activation with Microsoft&#10;  2. **MAK Proxy**: Computers receive a MAK from a system running VAMT&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 35'
[KMS]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Key Management Service (KMS)&#10;Client/server application that enables client computers to activate their license doperating system products by communicating with a KMS host computer on the local network (suitable for large networks).&#10;Requires a minimum of 25 workstations (ref Activation threshold) and uses TCP port 1688. KMS hosts create an SRV resource record on DNS to identify it.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 35'
[Active Directory-based activation]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Active Directory-based activation&#10;Use of AD DS for communication and data storage instead of a KMS host&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 39'
[VAMT]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT)&#10;Collects installation IDs from target computers, sending them to Microsoft using a single connection and receiving confirmation IDs in return, which are deployed to targets.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 35'
[Activation threshold]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Activation threshold&#10;Minimum of 25 workstation systems or five server systems as clients for KMS&#10;KMS hosts maintain a cache of the 50 most recent workstation requests, and KMS activations expire every 180 days (ref Activation validity interval). &#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 36'
[Activation validity interval]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Activation validity interval&#10;180 days for KMS activations, although clients attempt to renew every 7 days&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 37'
[Volume Activation Services]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Volume Activation Services&#10;Windows Server role that must be added before installing a KMS host&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 37'
[Volume Activation Tools]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Volume Activation Tools&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 37'
[GVLK]: #upgrade-and-migration 'generic volume licensing key (GVLK)&#10;Can be used to configure KMS clients that are not KMS clients by default, like those with retail, MAK, or KMS host licenses&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 39'
[Volume Licensing Services]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Volume Licensing Services&#10;Windows Server role that must be added before being able to use Active Directory-based activation&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 40'
[AVMA]: #upgrade-and-migration 'Automatic Virtual Machine Activation (AVMA)&#10;Simplifies the process of activating VMs created on Hyper-V servers, whereby a binding is created between the host server and the activation mechanism on each VM, which are activated automatically and remain so.&#10;Requires Datacenter Edition of WS 2016 or WS 2012 R2 on the host server and a specific key, depending on the version of Windows Server on the VM.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 41'

- Windows Server installation
  - Installation options: Desktop Experience, Server Core, Nano Server
  - Editions
    - [Standard][Windows Server 2016 Standard], [Essentials][Windows Server 2016 Essentials], [Multipoint Premium][Windows Server 2016 MultiPoint Premium Server], [Storage][Windows Storage Server 2016], [Hyper-V][Windows Hyper-V Server 2016], 
    - [Datacenter][Windows Server 2016 Datacenter]
      - [Storage Spaces Direct][S2D]
      - [Storage Replica][Storage Replica]
      - [Shielded VMs][shielded virtual machines]
      - [Network controller][network controller]
  - Roles and features ([`Install-WindowsFeature`][Install-WindowsFeature])
- Management
  - Powershell and Command Prompt commands: `Enter-`/`Exit-`/`Disconnect-PSSession`
  - [MMC snap-ins][snap-in]: [Distributed Component Object Model][DCOM]
    - [`cmdkey.exe`][cmdkey.exe]
- [Desired State Configuration][DSC]
  - Components
    - Configurations: [idempotent][idempotency] scripts containing [node][node block] and [resource][resource block] blocks
    - Resources
    - [Local Configuration Manager (LCM)][LCM]
  - [MOF file][MOF]
  - [Push] and [Pull][pull architecture] architectures
    - [Pull Server][Pull Server]
- Installation methods
  - [Clean][clean installation] installation or [upgrade][upgrade]
  - Server [Migration][migration] [tools][Windows Server Migration Tools] and `smigdeploy.exe`
- Activation
  - [Multiple activation key (MAK)][MAK] [Independent][MAK Independent] and [Proxy][MAK Proxy]
  - [Key Management Service (KMS)][KMS] 
    - [Activation threshold][Activation threshold] 
    - [Activation validity interval][Activation validity interval] 
    - [Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT)][VAMT]
    - [Volume Activation Services][Volume Activation Services] 
    - [Volume Activation Tools][Volume Activation Tools] 
    - [Generic Volume Licensing Keys (GVLK)][GVLK] 
    - Port 1688 <sup>[Zacker][Zacker]: 39</sup>
  - [Active Directory-based activation][Active Directory-based activation] 
  - [Automatic Virtual Machine Activation (AVMA)][AVMA] 

#### Nano Server
#### Images
[`dism.exe`][dism.exe]
### Storage
#### Disks and volumes
[block]: # 'allocation unit (block)&#10;smallest amount of disk space that the computer can allocate when storing a file (sometimes incorrectly called a "sector")&#10;Sobell, Mark. _Practical Guide to Linux_. 2017.: 82'
[sector]: # 'sector&#10;subdivision of a track, traditionally 512 bytes (Advanced Format disks use 4,096-byte sectors)&#10;Sobell, Mark. _Practical Guide to Linux_. 2017.: 82'
[slack space]: # 'slack space&#10;space left over when a file occupies only part of a block&#10;Sobell, Mark. _Practical Guide to Linux_. 2017.: 82'
[Master Boot Record]: # 'Master Boot Record (MBR)&#10;Older partition table type introduced in 1983 that is still common, despite its limitations.&#10;MBR partitions supports volumes up to 2 TB in size with up to 4 primary partitions.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 85'
[GUID partition table]: # 'GUID partition table (GPT)&#10;Newer partition table type, introduced in the late 1990s, but not supported in Windows prior to Windows Server 2008 and Windows Vista.&#10;The GPT specification supports an unlimited number of partitions on volumes up to 18 exabytes.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 86'
[VHD]: # 'VHD&#10;"Virtual Hard Disk", virtual hard disk image format and file name extension supported by Windows Server.&#10;VHD images are limited to a maximum size of 2 TB and are compatible with servers running Windows Server 2008 or later, or workstations running Windows 7 or later.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 88'
[VHDX]: # 'VHDX&#10;Newer hard disk image format and file name extension.&#10;VHDX image files can be as large as 64 TB, and they also support 4 KB logical sector sizes to provide compatibility with 4 KB native drives. VHDX files can be read only by servers running Windows Server 2012 or later or workstations running Windows 8 or later.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 88'

- [allocation unit][block]
- [block][block]
- [sector][sector]
- [slack space][slack space]
- [MBR][Master Boot Record] 
- [GPT][GUID partition table] 
- [VHD][VHD] 
- [VHDX][VHDX] 

[**`Smb` cmdlets**](#smb)

#### Server storage
[Storage Spaces]: #server-storage 'Storage Spaces&#10;disk virtualization technology that enables a server to combine the storage space from individual physical disks and allocate that space to create virtual disks of any size supported by the hardware.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 123'
[DCB]: #server-storage 'datacenter bridging (DCB)&#10;IEEE standards that define mechanisms for flow control and bandwidth management on a network with multiple traffic types&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 143'
[thinly provisioned]: #server-storage 'thinly provisioned&#10;virtual disk with a maximum size larger than that of currently available storage space&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 126'
[Simple fault tolerance]: #server-storage 'Simple fault tolerance&#10;Data is striped across all of the physical disks in the pool with no fault tolerance&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 127'
[Mirror fault tolerance]: #server-storage 'Mirror fault tolerance&#10;Data is written to two or three physical disks, so that a copy is always immediately available in case of failure.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 127'
[Parity fault tolerance]: #server-storage 'Parity fault tolerance&#10;Data is striped across 3 or more physical disks in the pool along with parity information, which allows reconstruction of data if a physical disk fails&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 128'
[hot spare]: #server-storage 'hot spare&#10;disk that is part of the pool, but its space is not used until a disk failure occurs&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 130'
[tiered storage]: #server-storage 'tiered storage&#10;Storage Spaces feature that enables administrators to use their higher-performance storage devices for their most commonly used files&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 131'

[iSCSI]: #server-storage 'Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI)&#10;SAN technology that enables servers and storage devices to exchange SCSI traffic over an IP network, rather than the more expensive Fibre Channel&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 133'
[iSCSI initiator]: #server-storage 'iSCSI initiator&#10;hardware or software device running on a computer that accesses the storage devices on the SAN and takes the place of the host adapter that traditional SCSI implementations used to connect storage cdevices to a computer&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 133'
[iSCSI target]: #server-storage 'iSCSI target&#10;receives SCSI commands from the initiator and passes them to a storage device, represented by a logical unit number (LUN)&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 134'
[HBA]: #server-storage 'host bus adapter (HBA)&#10;hardware iSCSI initiator, taking the form of an expansion card that includes the functionality of a SCSI host adapter and a Gigabit Ethernet network adapter in one device&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 134'

- [Storage Spaces][Storage Spaces]
  - Fault tolerance
    - Layouts
      - [Simple][Simple fault tolerance]
      - [Mirror][Mirror fault tolerance]
      - [Parity][Parity fault tolerance]
    - [hot spare][hot spare]
  - Performance
    - [Tiered storage][tiered storage]
    - [iSCSI][iSCSI]
      - [initiator][iSCSI initiator]
        - [host bus adapter][HBA]
      - [target][iSCSI target]
    - iSNS

A virtual disk configured in [Storage Spaces][Storage Spaces] can be [thinly provisioned][thinly provisioned], if the drive is expected to grow in the future.
Fault tolerance of a storage space can be configured by choosing between [Simple][Simple fault tolerance], [Parity][Parity fault tolerance], or [Mirror][Mirror fault tolerance] layout options; individual physical disks can also be configured as [hot spares][hot spare].
Modern SANs are based on [iSCSI][iSCSI], and iSCSI devices are of two types: [initiators][iSCSI initiator] that receive I/O requests from the operating system and [targets][iSCSI target] that receive SCSI commands and pass them to storage devices.
 

#### Data deduplication
[Data deduplication]: # 'Data deduplication&#10;role service in Windows Server 2016 that conserves storage space on an NTFS volume by locating redundant data and storing only one copy of that data instead of multiple copies; ReFS support was introduced with Windows Server version 1709&#10;Data deduplication replaces the earlier Single Instance Store (SIS) technology in earlier versions of Windows Server.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 155'
[chunk store]: # 'chunk store&#10;separate area of the disk where unique chunks are kept&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 158'
[reparse point]: # 'reparse point&#10;special tag that replaces the location of a chunk that already exists in the store&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 158'
[churn]: # 'churn&#10;accumulation of unoptimized files due to the workload of the volume&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 158'
[garbage collection]: # 'garbage collection&#10;job that searches the chunk store for chunks that no longer have reparse points associatd with them, typically due to modified or deleted files&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 158'
[integrity scrubbing]: # 'integrity scrubbing&#10;job that searches for damage or corruption in the chunk store, replacing missing data with mirror or parity data&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 158'
[unoptimization]: # 'unoptimization&#10;job that restores all of the optimized files on a volume to their original states, disabling Data Deduplication for that volume in the process&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 159'

- [Data deduplication][Data deduplication] 
  - [chunk store][chunk store] 
  - [reparse point][reparse point] 
  - [churn][churn] 
  - [garbage collection][garbage collection] 
  - [integrity scrubbing][integrity scrubbing] 
  - [unoptimization][unoptimization] 
  - [`Enable-DedupVolume`][Enable-DedupVolume]
  - [`ddpeval.exe`][ddpeval.exe]
### Hyper-V
#### Hyper-V configuration
[Hyper-V]: # 'Hyper-V&#10;Windows Server 2016 role and Type 1 Hypervisor&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 165'
[partition]: # 'partition&#10;individual environments created by hypervisor, each of which has its own operating system installed and accesses the computer\'s hardware via the hypervisor&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 167'
[Sconfig]: # 'Sconfig&#10;script-based configuration interface for Hyper-V Server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 168'
[explicit remoting]: # 'explicit remoting&#10;opening a temporary or persistent Powershell session to a remote system&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 176'
[implicit remoting]: # 'implicit remoting&#10;running a cmdlet specifying the `ComputerName` parameter, which directs its function to the remote system&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 177'
[PowerShell Direct]: # 'PowerShell Direct&#10;a means of connecting to a Hyper-V guest operating system from the host operating system, using a PowerShell session&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 180'
[Resource metering]: # 'Resource metering&#10;Hyper-V feature that makes it possible to track the resources a VM uses as it operates&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 193'
[NUMA]: # 'Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA)&#10;system architecture used to increase memory efficiency in computers with multiple processors by dividing logical processors and memory into NUMA nodes, with each node containing one or more logical processors and the region of memory closest to them&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 189'
[NUMA ratio]: # 'NUMA ratio&#10;difference between accessing local and remote memory for any processor&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 189'
[Smart paging]: # 'Smart paging&#10;Hyper-V feature that enables the host server to compensate when its memory is overcommitted by using disk space for memory paging only during the boot sequence&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 192'
[Nested virtualization]: # 'Nested virtualization&#10;ability to configure a Hyper-V guest VM to function as a Hyper-V host&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 181'

- [Hyper-V][Hyper-V] 
- [partition][partition] 
- [Sconfig][Sconfig] 
- [explicit remoting][explicit remoting] 
- [implicit remoting][implicit remoting] 
- [PowerShell Direct][PowerShell Direct] 
- [Resource metering][Resource metering] 
- [Non-Uniform Memory Access][NUMA] 
- [NUMA ratio][NUMA ratio] 
- [Smart paging][Smart paging] 
- [Nested virtualization][Nested virtualization] 

#### VM configuration
#### Hyper-V storage
#### Hyper-V networking
[external virtual switch]: # 'external virtual switch&#10;bound to networking protocol stack in the host operating system and connected to a physical network interface adapter on the host, allowing VMs to access the network to which the physical adapter is connected&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 241'
[internal virtual switch]: # 'internal virtual switch&#10;Bound to a separate instance of the networking protocol stack in the host operating system, independent from the physical network interface adapter and its connected network, it allows VMs to access the virtual network, including the host operating system.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 241'
[private virtual switch]: # 'private virtual switch&#10;Exists only in the Hyper-V server and is accessible only to the VMs running on it, and is inaccessible to the host operating system itself.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 241'

- Virtual switch
  - [external][external virtual switch]
  - [internal][internal virtual switch]
  - [private][private virtual switch]

Virtual switches can be [external][external virtual switch], [internal][internal virtual switch], or [private][private virtual switch] (in order of decreasing access).
### Windows containers
#### Container deployment
#### Container management
### Clusters
#### High availability
[Shared Nothing Live Migration]: #high-availability 'Shared Nothing Live Migration&#10;migration of VM data, memory, and system state to another host&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 307'
[Live Migration]: #high-availability 'Live Migration&#10;migration of VM state and live memory contents to another host, but not its data&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 303'
[Storage Migration]: #high-availability 'Storage Migration&#10;migration of VM virtual hard disk files to another host, but not its memory and system state&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 371'

- [`Enable-NetFirewallRule`][Enable-NetFirewallRule]
- [`Set-VmReplicationServer`][Set-VmReplicationServer]
- [`Move-VM`][Move-VM]
- Migrations
  - [Shared Nothing Live Migration][Shared Nothing Live Migration] 
  - [Live Migration][Live Migration] 
  - [Storage Migration][Storage Migration] 

Perform a [live migration][live migration] with the [`Move-VM`][Move-VM] cmdlet.
#### Failover clustering
[SoFS]: # 'Scale-Out File Server (SoFS)&#10;clustered role that is designed to provide highly available storage for applications, like Hyper-V and SQL Server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 337'
[Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer]: #add-clusterscaleoutfileserver '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer&#10;```&#10;Install the Scale-out File Server role&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 339'
[guest failover cluster]: #failover-clustering 'guest failover cluster&#10;consists solely of VMs running on a single Hyper-V host server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 341'

The [Scale-out File Server (SoFS)][SoFS] role is specifically recommended for use on Hyper-V and SQL Server clusters and can be installed with [`Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer`][Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer].
A [guest cluster][guest failover cluster] is good for learning about failover clustering.
#### Storage Spaces Direct
[hyper-converged S2D scenario]: # 'hyper-converged S2D scenario&#10;combines S2D with Hyper-V in a single cluster&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 357'
[disaggregated S2D scenario]: # 'disaggregated S2D scenario&#10;has two distinct clusters: a Scale-out File Server cluster that uses S2D to provide the storage for the second, a Hyper-V cluster hosting VMs&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 355'

Microsoft defined two deployment scenarios for [Storage Spaces Direct (S2D)][S2D]: [hyper-converted][hyper-converged S2D scenario] and [disaggregated][disaggregated S2D scenario].
The disaggregated scenario requires the [DCB][DCB] role for traffic management.
#### Moving cluster VMs
[quick migration]: #moving-cluster-vms 'quick migration&#10;move a running or stopped VM after what is usually a brief pause by first copying the memory of the VM to disk and then from the disk to the destination&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 370'

VMs can be moved from node to node of a cluster using [live][Live Migration], [storage][Storage Migration], or [quick][quick migration] migrations.

#### NLB
[drain on shutdown]: #nlb 'drain on shutdown&#10;feature of Windows Server 2016 Failover Clustering which automatically live migrates all roles on a node before shutting down the system&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 374'

Cluster VMs can be configured to [move][drain on shutdown] their workloads to other nodes when being shutdown using `Suspend-ClusterNode`
### Maintenance and monitoring
#### Maintenance
#### Monitoring
## Powershell
[Add-ClusterSharedVolume]: pwsh.md#add-clustersharedvolume '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterSharedVolume&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 153'
[Add-ClusterVMMonitoredItem]: pwsh.md#add-clustervmmonitoreditem '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterVMMonitoredItem&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 362'
[Add-ClusterVirtualMachineRole]: pwsh.md#add-clustervirtualmachinerole '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterVirtualMachineRole&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 304'
[Add-Computer]: pwsh.md#add-computer '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-Computer&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 20'
[Add-ContainerImageTag]: pwsh.md#add-containerimagetag '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ContainerImageTag&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 272'
[Add-VMNetworkAdapter]: pwsh.md#add-vmnetworkadapter '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-VMNetworkAdapter&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 237'
[Attach-Container]: pwsh.md#attach-container '```&#10;PS C:\> Attach-Container&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 280'
[Block-SmbShareAccess]: pwsh.md#block-smbshareaccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Block-SmbShareAccess&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 109'
[Close-SmbOpenFile]: pwsh.md#close-smbopenfile '```&#10;PS C:\> Close-SmbOpenFile&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 108'
[Close-SmbSession]: pwsh.md#close-smbsession '```&#10;PS C:\> Close-SmbSession&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 107'
[Compare-VM]: pwsh.md#compare-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Compare-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 212'
[Convert-VHD]: pwsh.md#convert-vhd '```&#10;PS C:\> Convert-VHD&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 228'
[ConvertTo-ContainerImage]: pwsh.md#convertto-containerimage '```&#10;PS C:\> ConvertTo-ContainerImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 280'
[Copy-Item]: pwsh.md#copy-item '```&#10;PS C:\> Copy-Item&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 180'
[Dismount-VHD]: pwsh.md#dismount-vhd '```&#10;PS C:\> Dismount-VHD&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 92'
[Edit-NanoServerImage]: pwsh.md#edit-nanoserverimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Edit-NanoServerImage&#10;```&#10;Add a role or feature to an existing Nano Server VHD file&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 49'
[Enable-DedupVolume]: pwsh.md#enable-dedupvolume '```&#10;PS C:\> Enable-DedupVolume&#10;```&#10;&#10;Enable deduplication for a volume&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 157'
[Enable-NetFirewallRule]: pwsh.md#enable-netfirewallrule '```&#10;PS C:\> Enable-NetFirewallRule&#10;```&#10;Enable a previously disabled Windows Firewall rule'
[Enter-ContainerSession]: pwsh.md#enter-containersession '```&#10;PS C:\> Enter-ContainerSession&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 280'
[Enter-PsSession]: pwsh.md#enter-pssession '```&#10;PS C:\> Enter-PsSession&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 22'
[Exit-PsSession]: pwsh.md#exit-pssession '```&#10;PS C:\> Exit-PsSession&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 177'
[Export-VM]: pwsh.md#export-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Export-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 210'
[Format-List]: pwsh.md#format-list '```&#10;PS C:\> Format-List&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 161'
[Get-Command]: pwsh.md#get-command '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-Command&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 21'
[Get-ComputerInfo]: pwsh.md#get-computerinfo '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-ComputerInfo&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 274'
[Get-Container]: pwsh.md#get-container '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-Container&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 280'
[Get-DedupStatus]: pwsh.md#get-dedupstatus '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-DedupStatus&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 161'
[Get-Help]: pwsh.md#get-help '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-Help&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 21'
[Get-NetAdapterVmqQueue]: pwsh.md#get-netadaptervmqqueue '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-NetAdapterVmqQueue&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 252'
[Get-NetAdapter]: pwsh.md#get-netadapter '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-NetAdapter&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 19'
[Get-SRGroup]: pwsh.md#get-srgroup '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SRGroup&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 154'
[Get-SmbClientConfiguration]: pwsh.md#get-smbclientconfiguration '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmbClientConfiguration&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 111'
[Get-SmbOpenFile]: pwsh.md#get-smbopenfile '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmbOpenFile&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 108'
[Get-SmbServerConfiguration]: pwsh.md#get-smbserverconfiguration '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmbServerConfiguration&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 109'
[Get-SmbSession]: pwsh.md#get-smbsession '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmbSession&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 107'
[Get-SmbShareAccess]: pwsh.md#get-smbshareaccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmbShareAccess&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 108'
[Get-VMHostSupportedVersion]: pwsh.md#get-vmhostsupportedversion '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-VMHostSupportedVersion&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 209'
[Get-VM]: pwsh.md#get-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 177'
[Get-WindowsFeature]: pwsh.md#get-windowsfeature '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-WindowsFeature&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 15'
[Grant-SRAccess]: pwsh.md#grant-sraccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Grant-SRAccess&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 153'
[Grant-SmbShareAccess]: pwsh.md#grant-smbshareaccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Grant-SmbShareAccess&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 109'
[Import-VM]: pwsh.md#import-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Import-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 211'
[Install-WindowsFeature]: pwsh.md#install-windowsfeature '```&#10;PS C:\> Install-WindowsFeature&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 15, 171, 225, 377'
[Invoke-Command]: pwsh.md#invoke-command '```&#10;PS C:\> Invoke-Command&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 180'
[Measure-VM]: pwsh.md#measure-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Measure-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 194, 234-235'
[Merge-VHD]: pwsh.md#merge-vhd '```&#10;PS C:\> Merge-VHD&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 228'
[Mount-DiskImage]: pwsh.md#mount-diskimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Mount-DiskImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 92'
[Mount-VHD]: pwsh.md#mount-vhd '```&#10;PS C:\> Mount-VHD&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 92'
[New-Cluster]: pwsh.md#new-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> New-Cluster&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 337'
[New-Container]: pwsh.md#new-container '```&#10;PS C:\> New-Container&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 275, 280'
[New-NanoServerImage]: pwsh.md#new-nanoserverimage '```&#10;PS C:\> New-NanoServerImage&#10;New-NanoServerImage -DeploymentType guest|host -Edition standard|datacenter -MediaPath root -TargetPath $PATH -ComputerName $NAME&#10;```&#10;Used to create a Nano Server VHD file for Nano Server installation&#10;Required parameters:&#10;  `DeploymentType` specified whether the image file should be used on a Hyper-V VM ("Guest") or a physical server ("Host")&#10;  `Edition` specifies whether to install the Standard or Datacenter edition of Nano Server&#10;  `MediaPath` specifies the path to the root of the WS2016 installation disk or mounted image&#10;  `BasePath` specifies a path on the local system where the cmdlet creates a copy of the installation files from the location specified in `MediaPath`&#10;  `TargetPath` specifies the full path and filename of the new image to be created with the filename extension (".vhd" or ".vhdx") specifying Generation 1 or Generation 2 image.&#10;  `ComputerName` specifies the computer name that should be assigned to the new image&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 44'
[New-NetIpAddress]: pwsh.md#new-netipaddress '```&#10;PS C:\> New-NetIpAddress&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 19'
[New-NetQosPolicy]: pwsh.md#new-netqospolicy '```&#10;PS C:\> New-NetQosPolicy&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 144'
[New-NetQosTrafficClass]: pwsh.md#new-netqostrafficclass '```&#10;PS C:\> New-NetQosTrafficClass&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 144'
[New-PsSession]: pwsh.md#new-pssession '```&#10;PS C:\> New-PsSession&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 21'
[New-SRPartnership]: pwsh.md#new-srpartnership '```&#10;PS C:\> New-SRPartnership&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 151'
[New-SmbShare]: pwsh.md#new-smbshare '```&#10;PS C:\> New-SmbShare&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 106'
[New-VHD]: pwsh.md#new-vhd '```&#10;PS C:\> New-VHD&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 90, 219, 223'
[New-VM]: pwsh.md#new-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> New-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 47, 184, 197'
[Optimize-VM]: pwsh.md#optimize-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Optimize-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 228'
[Remove-ContainerImage]: pwsh.md#remove-containerimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-ContainerImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 273'
[Remove-Container]: pwsh.md#remove-container '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-Container&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 281'
[Remove-SmbShare]: pwsh.md#remove-smbshare '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-SmbShare&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 108'
[Reset-VMResourceMetering]: pwsh.md#reset-vmresourcemetering '```&#10;PS C:\> Reset-VMResourceMetering&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 195'
[Revoke-SmbShareAccess]: pwsh.md#revoke-smbshareaccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Revoke-SmbShareAccess&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 109'
[Set-Disk]: pwsh.md#set-disk '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-Disk&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 226'
[Set-DnsClientServerAddress]: pwsh.md#set-dnsclientserveraddress '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-DnsClientServerAddress&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 20'
[Set-FileStorageTier]: pwsh.md#set-filestoragetier '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-FileStorageTier&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 133'
[Set-Item]: pwsh.md#set-item '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-Item&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 56'
[Set-NetAdapterVmq]: pwsh.md#set-netadaptervmq '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-NetAdapterVmq&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 253'
[Set-NetQoSbcdxSetting]: pwsh.md#set-netqosbcdxsetting '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-NetQoSbcdxSetting&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 143'
[Set-SRPartnership]: pwsh.md#set-srpartnership '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-SRPartnership&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 155'
[Set-SmbPathAcl]: pwsh.md#set-smbpathacl '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-SmbPathAcl&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 340'
[Set-SmbServerConfiguration]: pwsh.md#set-smbserverconfiguration '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-SmbServerConfiguration&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 109'
[Set-VMFirmware]: pwsh.md#set-vmfirmware '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-VMFirmware&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 208'
[Set-VMMemory]: pwsh.md#set-vmmemory '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-VMMemory&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 185'
[Set-VMNetworkAdapter]: pwsh.md#set-vmnetworkadapter '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-VMNetworkAdapter&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 255'
[Set-VMReplicationServer]: pwsh.md#set-vmreplicationserver '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-VMReplicationServer&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 300'
[Set-VM]: pwsh.md#set-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-VM&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 231'
[Start-DscConfiguration]: pwsh.md#start-dscconfiguration '```&#10;PS C:\> Start-DscConfiguration&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 27'
[Test-SRTopology]: pwsh.md#test-srtopology '```&#10;PS C:\> Test-SRTopology&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 152'
[Unblock-SmbShareAccess]: pwsh.md#unblock-smbshareaccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Unblock-SmbShareAccess&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 109'
[Update-VMVersion]: pwsh.md#update-vmversion '```&#10;PS C:\> Update-VMVersion&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 209'
[Set-VmReplicationServer]: pwsh.md#set-vmreplicationserver '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-VmReplicationServer&#10;```&#10;Configure a host as a Replica server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 300'

<!-- Failover clustering cmdlets -->
[Add-ClusterDisk]: pwsh.md#add-clusterdisk '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterDisk&#10;```&#10;Allow an admin to add a new disk to a failover cluster'
[Add-ClusterFileServerRole]: pwsh.md#add-clusterfileserverrole '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterFileServerRole&#10;```&#10;This command allows an admin to create a clustered file server'
[Add-ClusterGenericApplicationRole]: pwsh.md#add-clustergenericapplicationrole '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterGenericApplicationRole&#10;```&#10;Configures an application in the generic application role, providing high availability for an application not designed for use in a failover cluster.'
[Add-ClusterGroup]: pwsh.md#add-clustergroup '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterGroup&#10;```&#10;Allow an admin to add a resource group to the failover cluster'
[Add-ClusterNode]: pwsh.md#add-clusternode '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterNode&#10;```&#10;Allow an admin to add a node to a failover cluster'
[Add-ClusterResource]: pwsh.md#add-clusterresource '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterResource&#10;```&#10;Allow an admin to add a resource to a failover cluster'
[Add-ClusterResourceDependency]: pwsh.md#add-clusterresourcedependency '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterResourceDependency&#10;```&#10;Add a resource dependency to a failover cluster'
[Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer]: pwsh.md#add-clusterscaleoutfileserver '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer&#10;```&#10;Install the Scale-out File Server role&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 339'
[Add-ClusterServerRole]: pwsh.md#add-clusterserverrole '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-ClusterServerRole&#10;```&#10;Add the cluster server role to a server'
[Block-ClusterAccess]: pwsh.md#block-clusteraccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Block-ClusterAccess&#10;```&#10;Block the specified users from accessing a cluster'
[Enable-ClusterStorageSpacesDirect]: #enable-clusterstoragespacesdirect '```&#10;PS C:\> Enable-ClusterStorageSpacesDirect&#10;```&#10;&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 354'
[Get-Cluster]: pwsh.md#get-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-Cluster&#10;```&#10;Display information about a failover cluster'
[Get-ClusterAccess]: pwsh.md#get-clusteraccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-ClusterAccess&#10;```&#10;Display permissions for a failover cluster'
[Get-ClusterNode]: pwsh.md#get-clusternode '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-ClusterNode&#10;```&#10;Display information about the servers in a failover cluster'
[Get-ClusterQuorum]: pwsh.md#get-clusterquorum '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-ClusterQuorum&#10;```&#10;Display cluster quorum in a cluster'
[New-Cluster]: pwsh.md#new-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> New-Cluster&#10;```&#10;Create a new failover cluster'
[Remove-Cluster]: pwsh.md#remove-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-Cluster&#10;```&#10;Remove a failover cluster'
[Remove-ClusterAccess]: pwsh.md#remove-clusteraccess '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-ClusterAccess&#10;```&#10;Remove user access from the cluster'
[Remove-ClusterNode]: pwsh.md#remove-clusternode '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-ClusterNode&#10;```&#10;Remove a node from a failover cluster'
[Start-Cluster]: pwsh.md#start-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> Start-Cluster&#10;```&#10;Start the Cluster service on all nodes'
[Stop-Cluster]: pwsh.md#stop-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> Stop-Cluster&#10;```&#10;Stop the Cluster service on all nodes'
[Stop-ClusterNode]: pwsh.md#stop-clusternode '```&#10;PS C:\> Stop-ClusterNode&#10;```&#10;Stop the Cluster service on a node'
[Suspend-ClusterNode]: pwsh.md#suspend-clusternode '```&#10;PS C:\> Suspend-ClusterNode&#10;```&#10;Pause the activity of a failover cluster node&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 374'
[Test-Cluster]: pwsh.md#test-cluster '```&#10;PS C:\> Test-Cluster&#10;```&#10;Complete validation tests for a cluster'

<!-- Windows Server Migration Tools-->
[Export-SmigServerSetting]:    https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#export-smigserversetting       '```&#10;PS C:\> Export-SmigServerSetting&#10;```&#10;Export certain Windows features and operating system settings to a migration store&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Get-SmigServerFeature]:       https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#get-smigserverfeature          '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-SmigServerFeature&#10;```&#10;Display a list of Windows features that can be migrated from the local server or ffrom a migration store&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Import-SmigServerSetting]:    https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#import-smigserversetting       '```&#10;PS C:\> Import-SmigServerSetting&#10;```&#10;Import certain Windows features and operating system settings from a migration store and apply them to the local server&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Receive-SmigServerData]:      https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#receive-smigserverdata         '```&#10;PS C:\> Receive-SmigServerData&#10;```&#10;Enable a destination server to receive migrated files, folders, permissions, and share properties from a source server (`Send-SmigServerData` cmdlet must be running on the source server at the same time)&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[Send-SmigServerData]:         https://github.com/jasper-zanjani/notes/master/win/pwsh.md#send-smigserverdata            '```&#10;PS C:\> Send-SmigServerData&#10;```&#10;Migrate files, folders, permissions, and share properties from a source server to a destination server (`Receive-SmigServerData` cmdlet must be running on the destination server at the same time)&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 33'
[New-NanoServerImage]: pwsh.md#new-nanoserverimage '```&#10;PS C:\> New-NanoServerImage&#10;PS C:\> New-NanoServerImage -DeploymentType guest|host -Edition standard|datacenter -MediaPath root -TargetPath $PATH -ComputerName $NAME&#10;```&#10;Used to create a Nano Server VHD file for Nano Server installation&#10;Required parameters:&#10;  `DeploymentType` specified whether the image file should be used on a Hyper-V VM ("Guest") or a physical server ("Host")&#10;  `Edition` specifies whether to install the Standard or Datacenter edition of Nano Server&#10;  `MediaPath` specifies the path to the root of the WS2016 installation disk or mounted image&#10;  `BasePath` specifies a path on the local system where the cmdlet creates a copy of the installation files from the location specified in `MediaPath`&#10;  `TargetPath` specifies the full path and filename of the new image to be created with the filename extension (".vhd" or ".vhdx") specifying Generation 1 or Generation 2 image.&#10;  `ComputerName` specifies the computer name that should be assigned to the new image&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 44'
[Edit-NanoServerImage]: pwsh.md#edit-nanoserverimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Edit-NanoServerImage&#10;```&#10;Add a role or feature to an existing Nano Server VHD file&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 49'

<!-- DISM.exe equivalents -->
[Add-AppxProvisionedPackage]: pwsh.md#add-appxprovisionedpackage '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-AppxProvisionedPackage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Add-ProvisionedAppxPackage`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Get-AppxProvisionedPackage]: pwsh.md#get-appxprovisionedpackage '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-AppxProvisionedPackage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Get-ProvisionedAppxPackages`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Remove-AppxProvisionedPackage]: pwsh.md#remove-appxprovisionedpackage '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-AppxProvisionedPackage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Remove-ProvisionedAppxPackage`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Set-AppxProvisionedDataFile]: pwsh.md#set-appxprovisioneddatafile '```&#10;PS C:\> Set-AppxProvisionedDataFile&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Set-ProvisionedAppxDataFile`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Add-WindowsDriver]: pwsh.md#add-windowsdriver '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-WindowsDriver&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Add-Drive`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Add-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#add-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `dism.exe /Append-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Add-WindowsPackage]: pwsh.md#add-windowspackage '```&#10;PS C:\> Add-WindowsPackage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Add-Package`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Apply-WindowsUnattend]: pwsh.md#apply-windowsunattend '```&#10;PS C:\> Apply-WindowsUnattend&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Apply-Unattend`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Disable-WindowsOptionalFeature]: pwsh.md#disable-windowsoptionalfeature '```&#10;PS C:\> Disable-WindowsOptionalFeature&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Disable-Feature`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Dismount-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#dismount-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Dismount-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Unmount-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature]: pwsh.md#enable-windowsoptionalfeature '```&#10;PS C:\> Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Enable-Feature`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Expand-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#expand-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Expand-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Apply-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Export-WindowsDriver]: pwsh.md#export-windowsdriver '```&#10;PS C:\> Export-WindowsDriver&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Export-Driver`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Export-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#export-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Export-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Export-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Get-WindowsDriver]: pwsh.md#get-windowsdriver '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-WindowsDriver&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Get-Drivers`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Get-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#get-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Get-ImageInfo`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Get-WindowsImageContent]: pwsh.md#get-windowsimagecontent '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-WindowsImageContent&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /List-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Get-WindowsOptionalFeature]: pwsh.md#get-windowsoptionalfeature '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-WindowsOptionalFeature&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Get-Features`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Get-WindowsPackage]: pwsh.md#get-windowspackage '```&#10;PS C:\> Get-WindowsPackage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Get-Packages`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Mount-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#mount-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Mount-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Mount-image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[New-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#new-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> New-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Capture-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Remove-WindowsDriver]: pwsh.md#remove-windowsdriver '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-WindowsDriver&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Remove-Driver`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Remove-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#remove-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Remove-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'
[Remove-WindowsPackage]: pwsh.md#remove-windowspackage '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-WindowsPackage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Image:foldername /Remove-Package`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 78'
[Save-WindowsImage]: pwsh.md#save-windowsimage '```&#10;PS C:\> Save-WindowsImage&#10;```&#10;&#10;Equivalent to `Dism.exe /Commit-Image`&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 77'

<!-- Hyper-V cmdlets -->
[Move-VM]: pwsh.md#move-vm '```&#10;PS C:\> Move-VM&#10;```&#10;Moves a virtual machine to a new Hyper-V host.'
[New-VMSwitch]: pwsh.md#new-vmswitch '```&#10;New-VMSwitch&#10;```&#10;Creates a new virtual switch on one or more virtual machine hosts.'
[Remove-VMNetworkAdapter]: pwsh.md#remove-vmnetworkadapter '```&#10;PS C:\> Remove-VMNetworkAdapter&#10;```&#10;Removes one or more virtual network adapters from a virtual machine.'

<!-- Storage Spaces -->
[Set-FileStorageTier]: pwsh.md#set-filestoragetier '```&#10;Set-FileStorageTier&#10;```&#10;Assign a file to a storage tier&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 133'

<code>NanoServerImage&nbsp;[n][New-NanoServerImage] [e][Edit-NanoServerImage]</code> 
**AppxProvisioned**
<code>DataFile&nbsp;[s][Set-AppxProvisionedDataFile]</code> 
<code>Package&nbsp;[a][Add-AppxProvisionedPackage] [g][Get-AppxProvisionedPackage] [r][Remove-AppxProvisionedPackage]</code> 
**Cluster**
<code>[g][Get-Cluster]&nbsp;[n][New-Cluster]&nbsp;[t][Test-Cluster]</code>
<code>Access&nbsp;[b][Block-ClusterAccess]&nbsp;[g][Get-ClusterAccess]&nbsp;[r][Remove-ClusterAccess]</code>
<code>Disk&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterDisk]</code>
<code>FileServerRole&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterFileServerRole]</code>
<code>GenericApplicationRole&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterGenericApplicationRole]</code>
<code>Group&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterGroup]</code>
<code>Node&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterNode]&nbsp;[g][Get-ClusterNode]&nbsp;[r][Remove-ClusterNode]&nbsp;[sp][Stop-ClusterNode]&nbsp;[ss][Suspend-ClusterNode]</code>
<code>Quorum&nbsp;[g][Get-ClusterQuorum]</code>
<code>Resource&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterResource]</code>
<code>ResourceDependency&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterResourceDependency]</code>
<code>ScaleOutFileServer&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterScaleOutFileServer]</code>
<code>ServerRole&nbsp;[a][Add-ClusterServerRole]</code>
<code>SharedVolume&nbsp;a</code>
<code>StorageSpacesDirect&nbsp;[e][Enable-ClusterStorageSpacesDirect]</code>
<code>VirtualMachineRole&nbsp;a</code>
<code>VMMonitoredItem&nbsp;a</code>
**Container**
<code>[Attach][Attach-Container]&nbsp;[g][Get-Container]&nbsp;[r][Remove-Container]&nbsp;[n][New-Container]</code>
<code>Image&nbsp;[r][Remove-ContainerImage]&nbsp;[ct][ConvertTo-ContainerImage]</code>
<code>ImageTag [a][Add-ContainerImageTag]</code>
<code>Session [et][Enter-ContainerSession]</code>
**Smb**
<code>ClientConfiguration&nbsp;[g][Get-SmbClientConfiguration]</code>
<code>OpenFile&nbsp;[g][Get-SmbOpenFile]&nbsp;[cs][Close-SmbOpenFile]</code>
<code>ServerConfiguration&nbsp;[g][Get-SmbServerConfiguration]&nbsp;[s][Set-SmbServerConfiguration]</code>
<code>Session&nbsp;[cs][Close-SmbSession]&nbsp;[g][Get-SmbSession]</code>
<code>Share&nbsp;[n][New-SmbShare]&nbsp;[r][Remove-SmbShare]</code>
<code>ShareAccess&nbsp;[g][Get-SmbShareAccess]&nbsp;[bl][Block-SmbShareAccess]&nbsp;[gr][Grant-SmbShareAccess]&nbsp;[rk][Revoke-SmbShareAccess]&nbsp;[uk][Unblock-SmbShareAccess]</code>
**SmigServer** 
<code>Data&nbsp;[rc][Receive-SmigServerData]&nbsp;[sd][Send-SmigServerData]</code>
<code>Feature&nbsp;[g][Get-SmigServerFeature]</code>
<code>Setting&nbsp;[ex][Export-SmigServerSetting]&nbsp;[ip][Import-SmigServerSetting]</code>
**VM** 
<code>[m][Move-VM]</code>
<code>NetworkAdapter&nbsp;[a][Add-VMNetworkAdapter]&nbsp;[r][Remove-VMNetworkAdapter]&nbsp;[s][Set-VMNetworkAdapter]</code> 
<code>Switch&nbsp;[n][New-VMSwitch]</code> 
**Windows**
<code>Driver&nbsp;[a][Add-WindowsDriver]&nbsp;[ep][Export-WindowsDriver]&nbsp;[g][Get-WindowsDriver]&nbsp;[r][Remove-WindowsDriver]</code>
<code>Image&nbsp;[a][Add-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[en][Expand-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[n][New-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[sv][Save-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[ep][Export-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[g][Get-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[mt][Mount-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[r][Remove-WindowsImage]&nbsp;[dm][Dismount-WindowsImage]</code>
<code>ImageContent&nbsp;[g][Get-WindowsImageContent]</code>
<code>OptionalFeature&nbsp;[d][Disable-WindowsOptionalFeature] [e][Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature] [g][Get-WindowsOptionalFeature] </code>
<code>Package[a][Add-WindowsPackage] [g][Get-WindowsPackage] [r][Remove-WindowsPackage]</code>
<code>Unattend&nbsp;[Apply][Apply-WindowsUnattend]</code>
