- [Identity with Windows Server 2016 (70-742)](#identity-with-windows-server-2016-70-742)
  - [3. Create and manage Group Policy](#3-create-and-manage-group-policy)
    - [3.1 GPO creation and management](#31-gpo-creation-and-management)
    - [3.2 GPO processing](#32-gpo-processing)
    - [3.3 GPO settings](#33-gpo-settings)
- [Labs](#labs)
    - [DNS](#dns)


# Identity with Windows Server 2016 (70-742)
## 3. Create and manage Group Policy
### 3.1 GPO creation and management
[DFS]: #31-gpo-creation-and-management 'Distributed File System (DFS)&#10;suite of client and server services that allow an organization using Microsoft Windows servers to organize many distributed SMB file shares into a distributed file system&#10;"Universal Windows Platform apps". _Wikipedia_.'
[Group Policy container]: #31-gpo-creation-and-management 'Group Policy container&#10;One of the two components of GPOs, which defines the fundamental attributes of the GPO, each of which is assigned a unique GUID.&#10;Warren, Andrew. _Exam Ref 70-742: Identity with Windows Server 2016_. 2017.: 156'
[Group Policy template]: #31-gpo-creation-and-management 'Group Policy template&#10;One of the two components of GPOs, a collection of files and folders stored in the SYSVOL shared folder on all domain controllers which contain the actual GPO settings&#10;Warren, Andrew. _Exam Ref 70-742: Identity with Windows Server 2016_. 2017.: 156'
[scoping]: # 'scoping&#10;Process of determining which computers and users are impacted by the settings in a GPO&#10;Warren, Andrew. _Exam Ref 70-742: Identity with Windows Server 2016_. 2017.: 161'

[dcgpofix]: README.md#dcgpofix '```&#10;>dcgpofix&#10;```&#10;Reset default GPOs&#10;Warren, Andrew. _Exam Ref 70-742: Identity with Windows Server 2016_. 2017.: 174'

**Group Policy Objects (GPO)** facilitate the uniform administration of large numbers of users and computers.
GPOs can be **local** or **domain-based**.

Local GPOs come in several varieties, applied in the following order (last takes highest precedence):
- **Local Group Policy** applied to computers
- **Administrators and Non-Administrators Local Group Policy** applied to users based on their membership in local **Administrators** group.
- **User-specific Local Group Policy**:

Domain-based GPOs consist of two components a [**container**][Group Policy container] and a .
These are stored in different locations and replicated by different means.
- [**Containers**][Group Policy container] are stored in the AD DS database and replicated to other domain controllers using intrasite or intersite AD DS replication schedule.
- [**Templates**][Group Policy template] are stored in `SYSVOL` (`%SystemRoot%\SYSVOL\Domain\Poligicies\{GUID}`).
`SYSVOL` replication is handled by the **[DFS][DFS] Replication Agent** since Windows Server 2008.

A GPO consists of 2 top-level nodes:
- **Computer Configuration** contains settings that are applied to computer objects to which the GPO is linked
- **User Configuration** containers user-related settings, applied when a user signs in and thereafter and automatically refreshed every 90-120 minutes

Beneath **each** of these nodes are folders that group settings
- **Software Settings**
- **Windows Settings** allows basic configuration for computers or users
- **Administrative Templates** contains Registry settings that control user, computer, and app behavior and settings, grouped logically into folders

Although domain controllers store and serve GPOs, the client computer itself must request and apply the GPOs using the **Group Policy Client** service.
**Client-side extensions** process the GPOs once downloaded

**Starter GPOs** are intended for use in large organizations with a proliferation of GPOs that share settings.
Starter GPOs can be imported from, and exported to, a .CAB file.

Once a GPO is created it must be **linked** to a **container object** in AD DS for it to apply to objects, a process known as [**scoping**][scoping].
GPOs can be linked to Sites, Domains, and OUs.
If multiple GPOs are linked to the same container, the **link order** must be configured.

There are 2 default GPOs in an AD DS domain, which can be reset using arguments to the [`dcgpofix`][dcgpofix] command.
- Default Domain Policy, linked to the domain object
- Default Domain Controllers Policy, linked to the Domain Controllers OU

Although it is possible to link the same GPO to multiple containers, it is recommended to **import** (i.e. copy) a GPO from another domain.
This process effecitvely restores the settings of another GPO into a newly created GPO, which is then linked to another container.

### 3.2 GPO processing
### 3.3 GPO settings

# Labs
### DNS
[Set-DnsClientServerAddress]: #set-dnsclientserveraddress '```&#10;[PS] Set-DnsClientServerAddress&#10;```&#10;Set DNS server addresses associated with the TCP/IP properties on an interface&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 20'
[Install-ADDSForest]: #install-addsforest '```&#10;PS> Install-ADDSForest&#10;```&#10;Installs an Active Directory forest configuration.'
[Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone]: #add-dnsserverconditionalforwarderzone '```&#10;PS> Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone&#10;```&#10;Adds a conditional forwarder to a DNS server.'
[Add-DnsServerForwarder]: #add-dnsserverforwarder '```&#10;PS> Add-DnsServerForwarder&#10;```&#10;Adds server level forwarders to a DNS server.'
[Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation]: #add-dnsserverzonedelegation '```&#10;PS> Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation&#10;```&#10;Adds a new delegated DNS zone to an existing zone.'

[msdocs:Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/dnsserver/Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation "Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation"
[msdocs:Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/dnsserver/Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone "Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone"
[msdocs:Add-DnsServerForwarder]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/dnsserver/Add-DnsServerForwarder "Add-DnsServerForwarder"
[msdocs:Install-ADDSForest]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/addsdeployment/Install-ADDSForest "Install-ADDSForest"
[msdocs:Set-DnsClientServerAddress]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/dnsclient/Set-DnsClientServerAddress "Set-DnsClientServerAddress"

- ADDSForest
[`Install`][Install-ADDSForest]<sup>[?][msdocs:Install-ADDSForest]</sup>
- DNSClientServerAddress
[`Set`][Set-DnsClientServerAddress]<sup>[?][msdocs:Set-DnsClientServerAddress]</sup>
- DNSServerConditionalForwarderZone
[`Add`][Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone]<sup>[?][msdocs:Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone]</sup>
- DNSServerForwarder
[`Add`][Add-DnsServerForwarder]<sup>[?][msdocs:Add-DnsServerForwarder]</sup>
- Dns ServerZoneDelegation
[`Add`][Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation]<sup>[?][msdocs:Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation]</sup>

```powershell
# PLABSA01
Add-WindowsFeature dns, ad-domain-services -IncludeManagementTools
Install-ADDSForest -DomainName PRACTICEIT.CO.UK -SafeModeAdministratorPassword (ConvertTo-SecureString -Force -AsPlainText 'Passw0rd')

# PLABDC01
Set-DNSClientServerAddress -InterfaceAlias Ethernet -ServerAddresses ('192.168.0.1','192.168.0.4') # Equivalent to `netsh interface ipv4 add dns Ethernet 192.168.0.4 index=2`
Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone -Name 'practiceit.co.uk' -MasterServers '192.168.0.4'
Test-NetConnection plabsa01.practiceit.co.uk # Confirm name resolution is successful
Add-DnsServerForwarder -IpAddress '192.168.0.4'

# PLABSA01
Set-DnsClientServerAddress -InterfaceIndex 13 -ServerAddresses ('127.0.0.1','192.168.0.1') # Equivalent to `netsh interface ipv4 add dns Ethernet 192.168.0.1 index=2`
Add-DnsServerConditionalForwarderZone -Name 'practicelabs.com' -MasterServers '192.168.0.1'
Test-NetConnection plabdc01.practicelabs.com # Confirm name resolution is successful

# PLABDM01
Add-WindowsFeature dns -IncludeManagementTools
Add-DnsServerPrimaryZone -ZoneFile 'apac.practicelabs.com.dns' -ZoneName 'apac.practicelabs.com' -DynamicUpdate NonsecureAndSecure

# PLABDC01
Add-DnsServerZoneDelegation -Name 'practicelabs.com' -ChildZoneName 'apac' -NameServer 'plabdm01.practicelabs.com' -IPAddress '192.168.0.2'
```