Feature           | Requirement
--- | ---
**Storage migration** | <ul><li>Windows Server 2012 R2</li></ul>
**Windows Server Backup** backup of guest | <ul><li>Integration services installed and enabled</li><li>All guest disks are **basic** disks formatted with **NTFS**</li></ul>

### Shielded VMs
[Shielded VMs]: # 'Shielded Virtual Machine&#10;Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition feature that provides VMs with protection from compromised administrators that have access to the Hyper-V host computer by encrypting the VM state and virtual disks&#10;A shielded VM is a generation 2 VM that has a virtual TPM, is encrypted using BitLocker, and can run only on healthy and approved hosts in a guarded fabric.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 6'
[guarded host]: # 'Guarded host&#10;Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition Hyper-V host that can run shielded VMs only if it can prove that it is running in a known, trusted state to the HGS.'

As a result of increased virtualization, physical servers that were once secured physically were migrated to Hyper-V hosts that are less secure because they are accessible to **fabric administrators**.
[**Shielded VMs**][Shielded VMs] were introduced to protect **tenant workloads** from inspection, theft, and tampering as a result of being run on potentially compromised hosts.

A security concept closely associated to shielded VMs is the **guarded fabric**, which is a collection of nodes cooperating to protect shielded Hyper-V guests. The guarded fabric consists of:
- **Host Guardian Service (HGS)** utilizes **remote attestation** to confirm that a node is trusted; if so, it releases a key enabling the shielded VM to be started. HGS is typically a cluster of 3 nodes.
- [**Guarded hosts**][guarded host]: Windows Server 2016 Datacenter edition Hyper-V hosts that can run shielded VMs only if they can prove they are running in a known, trusted state to the Host Guardian Service.
- Shielded VMs

In a production environment, a **fabric manager** like _Virtual Machine Manager_ would be used to deploy shielded VMs (which are signified by a shield icon).

Shielded VMs must run Windows (8+) or Windows Server (2012+), although Linux shielded VMs are now also supported since version Windows Server version 1709.

Shielded VMs are produced by a three-stage process (VHD -> Shielded template -> Shielded VMs)
1. **Preparation**: Install and configure an OS onto a virtual disk file
2. **Templatization**: Convert virtual disk file into a **shielded template**
3. **Provisioning**: Create one or more shielded VMs from the shielded template

Configure HGS in its own new forest <sup>[YouTube](https://youtu.be/DQI3PX0PEAc)</sup>
```powershell
Install-WindowsFeature HostGuardianServiceRole -Restart
Install-HgsServer -HgsDomainName 'savtechhgs.net' -SafeModeAdministratorPassword $adminPassword -Restart
```

**Shielding Data** is created and owned by tenant VM owners and contains secrets needed to create shielded VMs that must be protected from the fabric admin.

Further reading:
- [Intro to shielded VMs](https://youtu.be/Vp5E1-4Ks8E)
- [Create a shielded VM using Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/guarded-fabric-shielded-vm/guarded-fabric-create-a-shielded-vm-using-powershell)
- [Linux Shielded VM How To](https://github.com/Microsoft/lsvmtools/blob/master/doc/LSVM_How_To.pdf)
- [Shielded VM Demonstration and Quick Setup](https://youtu.be/DQI3PX0PEAc)
- [Guarded Fabric Deployment Guide for Windows Server 2016](https://gallery.technet.microsoft.com/Shielded-VMs-and-Guarded-98d2b045)
- [Deploying Shielded VMs and a Guarded Fabric with Windows Server 2016](https://youtu.be/B2vFrdXd5jg)

#### Attestation
There are two modes of **attestation** supported by HGS: <sup>[MS Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/guarded-fabric-shielded-vm/guarded-fabric-and-shielded-vms)</sup>
- **Hardware-trusted attestation**
- **Remote attestation** based on asymmetric key pairs
- **Admin-trusted attestation** was previously based on guarded host membership in a designated AD DS security group, but is deprecated beginning with Windows Server 2019.

Hardware-trusted attestation mode requires: <sup>[?](https://youtu.be/B2vFrdXd5jg?t=375)</sup>
- **Measured boot**: TPMv2 to seal software and hardware configuration details measured at boot
- **Code integrity enforcement** to strictly define permissible software
- **Platform Identity Verification**: Active Directory is not sufficient to identify the host. Rather, an identity key rooted in the host TPM is used for identity.

Admin-trusted attestation mode: <sup>[?](https://youtu.be/B2vFrdXd5jg?t=525)</sup>
- Host identity is verified by checking security group permission
- **No** Measured Boot or Code Integrity Validation
- Intended to aid transition to Hardware-trusted attestation mode for hosts produced before TPMv2

#### VM generations
[legacy network adapter]: 70-740.md#hyper-v-networking 'legacy network adapter&#10;Also "emulated network adapter", one of two types of virtual network adapter supported by Generation 1 VMs in Hyper-V, which makes calls directly to the hypervisor.&#10;Generation 1 VMs could not boot from PXE without a legacy network adapter, however their performance is worse than that of synthetic network adapters.&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 248'
[synthetic network adapter]: 70-740.md#hyper-v-networking 'synthetic network adapter&#10;One of two types of virtual network adapter supported by Generation 1 VMs in Hyper-V, which does not correspond to a real-world product.&#10;Hyper-V synthetic network adapters communicate with the host operating system through the VMBus&#10;Zacker, Craig. _Installation, Storage and Compute with Windows Server 2016: Exam Ref 70-740_. 2017: 247'

PXE boot is supported in two scenarios:
- Generation 1 VMs with a [**legacy**][legacy network adapter] virtual network adapter support PXE boot (but not [**synthetic**][synthetic network adapter]). Generation 1 VMs are limited to 2 TB in size and do not support many of the advanced features that Generation 2 VMs do.
- Generation 2 VMs with a synthetic network adapter also support PXE boot. would also support bandwidth management and VMQ.

Generation 2 VMs also do not support 32-bit OSes, including:
- Windows Server 2008, R2
- Windows 7
- Older Linux distros
- FreeBSD (all)

VM cannot be upgraded from Generation 1 to Generation 2 easily, althought a script named Convert-VMGeneration was once provided by Microsoft and can still be found.
But the VM's **version**, referring to the version of Hyper-V used to create it, **can** be upgraded with **`Upgrade-VMVersion`**.